CHAPTER SIXTEEN

Hope

OVER THE NEXT MONTHS my parents did their best to patch the hole left
by Ben’s absence, bringing in the other troupers to fill my time productively
and keep me from moping.

You see, in the troupe age had little to do with anything. If you were strong
enough to saddle the horses, you saddled the horses. If your hands were quick
enough, you juggled. If you were clean shaven and fit the dress, you played
Lady Reythiel in The Swineherd and the Nightingale. Things were generally
as simple as that.

So Trip taught me how to jape and tumble. Shandi walked me though the
courtly dances of a half dozen countries. Teren measured me against the hilt
of his sword and judged that I had grown tall enough to begin the basics of
swordplay. Not enough to actually fight, he stressed. But enough so I could
make a good show of it on stage.

The roads were good this time of year, so we made excellent time traveling
north through the Commonwealth: fifteen, twenty miles a day as we searched
out new towns to play. With Ben gone, I rode with my father more often, and
he began my formal training for the stage.

I already knew a great deal, of course. But what I had picked up was an
undisciplined hodgepodge. My father systematically went about showing me
the true mechanics of the actor’s trade. How slight changes in accent or
posture make a man seem oafish, or sly, or silly.

Lastly, my mother began teaching me how to comport myself in polite
society. I knew a little from our infrequent stays with Baron Greyfallow, and
thought I was quite genteel enough without having to memorize forms of
address, table manners, and the elaborate snarled rankings of the peerage.
Eventually, I told my mother exactly that.

“Who cares if a Modegan viscount outranks a Vintish spara-thain?” I
protested. “And who cares if one is ‘your grace’ and the other is ‘my lord?’ ”

“They care,” my mother said firmly. “If you perform for them, you need to
conduct yourself with dignity and learn to keep your elbow out of the soup.”

“Father doesn’t worry about which fork to use and who outranks who,” I
sroused.

My mother frowned, her eyes narrowing.
