twilight.

How late was it? I hurried to gather my possessions, treating Ben’s book
more gently than the rest, and limped off in what I hoped was the direction of
Seaward Square.

The last of twilight had faded from the sky by the time I found the square. A
few wagons rolled sluggishly among the few straggling customers. I limped
wildly from corner to corner of the square, searching madly for the old farmer
who had given me a ride. Searching for the sight of one of those ugly, knobby
Squash.

When I finally found the bookstore Seth had parked beside, I was panting
and staggering. Seth and his wagon were nowhere to be seen. I sank down
into the empty space their wagon had left and felt the aches and pains of a
dozen injuries that I had forced myself to ignore.

I felt them out, one by one. I had several painful ribs, although I couldn’t
tell if they were broken or if the cartilage was torn. I was dizzy and nauseous
when I moved my head too quickly, probably a concussion. My nose was
broken, and I had more bruises and scrapes than I could conveniently count. I
was also hungry.

The last being the only thing I could do anything about, I took what was
left of my piece of bread from earlier in the day and ate it. It wasn’t enough,
but it was better than nothing. I took a drink from a horse trough and was
thirsty enough not to care that the water was brackish and sour.

I thought of leaving, but it would take me hours of walking in my current
condition. Besides, there was nothing waiting for me on the outskirts of the
city except miles upon miles of harvested farmland. No trees to keep the wind
away. No wood to make a fire. No rabbits to set traps for. No roots to dig. No
heather for a bed.

I was so hungry my stomach was a hard knot. Here at least I could smell
chicken cooking somewhere. I would have gone looking for the smell, but I
was dizzy, and my ribs hurt. Maybe tomorrow someone would give me
something to eat. Right now I was too tired. I wanted nothing more than to
Sleep.

The cobblestones were losing the last of the sun’s heat and the wind was
picking up. I moved back into the doorway of the bookshop to get out of the
wind. I was almost asleep when the owner of the shop opened the door and
kicked at me, telling me to shove off or he’d call the guard. I limped away as
quickly as I could.

After that I found some empty crates in an alley. I curled up behind them,
bruised and weary. I closed my eyes and tried not to remember what it was
like to go to sleep warm and full, surrounded by people who loved you.
