“Who outranks whom,” I said grudgingly.

“Your father knows more than he lets on,” my mother said. “And what he
doesn’t know he breezes past due to his considerable charm. That’s how he
sets by.” She took my chin and turned my face toward her. Her eyes were
sreen with a ring of gold around the pupil. “Do you just want to get by? Or do
you want to make me proud?”

There was only one answer to that. Once I knuckled down to learn it, it was
just another type of acting. Another script. My mother made rhymes to help
me remember the more nonsensical elements of etiquette. And together we
wrote a dirty little song called “The Pontifex Always Ranks Under a Queen.”
We laughed over it for a solid month, and she strictly forbade me to sing it to
my father, lest he play it in front of the wrong people someday and get us all
into serious trouble.

“Tree!” The shout came faintly down the line. “Threeweight oak!”

My father stopped in the middle of the monologue he had been reciting for
me and gave an irritated sigh. “That’ll be as far as we get today then,” he
srumbled, looking up at the sky.

“Are we stopping?” my mother called from inside the wagon.

“Another tree across the road,” I explained.

“IT swear,” my father said, steering the wagon to a clear space at the side of
the road. “Is this the king’s road or isn’t it? You’d think we were the only
people on it. How long ago was that storm? Two span?”

“Not quite,” I said. “Sixteen days.”

“And trees still blocking the road! I’ve a mind to send the consulate a bill
for every tree we’ve had to cut and drag out of the way. This will put us
another three hours behind schedule.” He hopped from the wagon as it rolled
to a halt.

“T think it’s nice,” my mother said, walking around from the back of the
wagon. “Gives us the chance for something hot,” she gave my father a
significant look, “to eat. It gets frustrating making do with whatever you can
srab at the end of the day. A body wants more.”

My father’s mood seemed to temper considerably. “There is that,” he said.

“Sweet?” my mother called to me. “Do you think you could find me some
wild sage?”

“T don’t know if it grows around here,” I said with the proper amount of
uncertainty in my voice.

“No harm in looking,” she said sensibly. She looked at my father from the
corer of her eye. “If you can find enough, bring back an armload. We’|Il dry
it for later.”

Typically, whether or not I found what I was looking for didn’t matter very
