Cealdish boy with lace on his shirt, a little girl with bare feet, and myself.

“T believe we have all heard enough,” the taller of the two priests said with
quiet severity. He was lean, with sunken eyes that smoldered like half hidden
coals. A carefully trimmed beard the color of soot sharpened the edges of his
knife blade face.

He handed his cloak to the shorter, hooded priest. Underneath he wore the
pale grey robe of the Tehlins. Around his neck was a set of silver scales. My
heart sunk deep into the pit of my stomach. Not just a priest, but a Justice. I
saw the other two children slip out the door.

The Justice spoke, “Under Tehlu’s watchful eye, I charge you with heresy.”

“Witnessed,” said the second priest from within his hood.

The Justice motioned to the mercenaries. “Bind him.”

This the mercenaries did with rough efficiency. Skarpi endured the whole
thing placidly, without saying a word.

The Justice watched his bodyguard begin to tie Skarpi’s wrists, then turned
his body slightly away, as if dismissing the storyteller from his mind. He took
a long look around the room, his inspection finally ending with the bald,
aproned man behind the bar.

“T-Tehlu’s blessing be upon you!” the owner of the Half-Mast stammered
explosively.

“Tt is,” the Justice said simply. He took another long look around the room.
Finally he turned his head to the second priest who stood back from the bar.
“Anthony, would a fine place such as this be harboring heretics?”

“Anything is possible, Justice.”

“Ahhh,” the Justice said softly and looked slowly around the room, once
again ending with an inspection of the man behind the bar.

“Can I offer your honors a drink? If’n it please you?” the owner offered

quickly.
There was only silence.
“IT mean ... a drink for you and your brothers. A fine barrel of fallow

white? ‘To show my thanks. I let him stay because his stories were interesting,
at first.” He swallowed hard and hurried on, “But then he started to say
wicked things. I was afraid to throw him out, because he is obviously mad,
and everyone knows God’s displeasure falls heavy on those who raise their
hands to madmen....” His voice broke, leaving the room suddenly quiet. He
swallowed, and I could hear the dry click his throat made from where I stood
by the door.

“A generous offer,” the Justice said finally.

“Very generous,” echoed the shorter priest.

“However, strong drink sometimes tempts men to wicked actions.”

“Wicked,” whispered the priest.

“And some of our brothers have taken vows against the temptations of the
