could see any attack long before it came to be a threat.

The other seven cities, lacking Selitos’ power, found their safety elsewhere.
They put their trust in thick walls, in stone and steel. They put their trust in
strength of arm, in valor and bravery and blood. And so they put their trust in
Lanre.

Lanre had fought since he could lift a sword, and by the time his voice
began to crack he was the equal of a dozen older men. He married a woman
named Lyra, and his love for her was a passion fiercer than fury.

Lyra was terrible and wise, and held a power just as great as his. For while
Lanre had the strength of his arm and the command of loyal men, Lyra knew
the names of things, and the power of her voice could kill a man or still a
thunderstorm.

As the years passed, Lanre and Lyra fought side by side. They defended
Belen from a surprise attack, saving the city from a foe that should have
overwhelmed them. They gathered armies and made the cities recognize the
need for allegiance. Over the long years they pressed the empire’s enemies
back. People who had grown numb with despair began to feel warm hope
kindling inside. They hoped for peace, and they hung those flickering hopes
on Lanre.

Then came the Blac of Drossen Tor. Blac meant ‘battle’ in the language of
the time, and at Drossen Tor there was the largest and most terrible battle of
this large and terrible war. They fought unceasing for three days in the light of
the sun, and for three nights unceasing by the light of the moon. Neither side
could defeat the other, and both were unwilling to retreat.

Of the battle itself I have only one thing to say. More people died at
Drossen Tor than there are living in the world today.

Lanre was always where the fight was thickest, where he was needed most.
His sword never left his hand or rested in its sheath. At the very end of things,
covered in blood amid a field of corpses, Lanre stood alone against a terrible
foe. It was a great beast with scales of black iron, whose breath was a
darkness that smothered men. Lanre fought the beast and killed it. Lanre
brought victory to his side, but he bought it with his life.

After the battle was finished and the enemy was set beyond the doors of
stone, survivors found Lanre’s body, cold and lifeless near the beast he had
Slain. Word of Lanre’s death spread quickly, covering the field like a blanket
of despair. They had won the battle and turned the tide of the war, but each of
them felt cold inside. The small flame of hope that each of them cherished
began to flicker and fade. Their hopes had hung on Lanre, and Lanre was
dead.

In the midst of silence Lyra stood by Lanre’s body and spoke his name. Her
voice was a Commandment. Her voice was steel and stone. Her voice told him
to live again. But Lanre lay motionless and dead.
