and chest. He screamed and clutched at his eyes as he went to his knees. Then
I struck the phosphorus match I’d stolen, and dropped it onto him, watching it
sputter and flare as it fell.

Full of the pure, hard hatred of a child, I hoped he would burst into a pillar
of flame. He didn’t, but did catch fire. He screamed again and staggered
around while his friends swatted at him, trying to put him out. I left while
they were busy.

It had been over a year ago and I hadn’t seen Pike since. He hadn’t tried to
find me, and I had stayed well clear of Dockside, sometimes going miles out
of my way rather than pass near it. It was a kind of truce. However, I didn’t
doubt that Pike and his friends remembered what I looked like, and were
willing to settle the score if they spotted me.

After thinking it over, I decided it was too dangerous. Even the promise of
free stories and a chance at a silver talent wasn’t worth stirring things up with
Pike again. Besides, what story would I ask for?

The question rolled around in my head for the next few days. What story
would I ask for? I jostled up against a dockworker and was cuffed away
before I could get my hand all the way into his pocket. What story? I begged
on the street corner opposite the Tehlin church. What story? I stole three
loaves of bread and took two of them down to Trapis as a gift. What story?

Then, as I lay on the rooftops in my secret place where three roofs met, it
Came to me just as I was about to drift off to sleep. Lanre. Of course. I could
ask him for the real story of Lanre. The story my father had been... .

My heart stuttered in my chest as I suddenly remembered things I had
avoided for years: my father idly strumming at his lute, my mother beside him
in the wagon, singing. Reflexively, I began to draw away from the memories,
the way you might pull your hand back from a fire.

But I was surprised to find these memories held only a gentle ache, not the
deep pain I expected. Instead I found a small, budding excitement at the
thought of hearing a story my father would have sought out. A story he
himself might have told.

Still, I knew it to be sheer folly to go running Dockside for the sake of a
story. All the hard practicality Tarbean had taught me over the years urged me
to stay in my familiar corner of the world, where I was safe... .

The first thing I saw on entering the Half-Mast was Skarpi. He was sitting on
a tall stool at the bar, an old man with eyes like diamonds and the body of a
driftwood scarecrow. He was thin and weathered with thick white hair on his
arms and face and head. The whiteness of it stood out from his deep brown
tan, making him seem splashed with wave foam.

At his feet were a group of twenty children, some few my age, most
