caroming off the wall. Then he grabbed me by the throat, spun me around,
and threw me to the ground.
That’s when I heard the noise, and everything seemed to stop.

After my troupe was murdered, there were times when I would dream of my
parents, alive and singing. In my dream their deaths had been a mistake, a
misunderstanding, a new play they had been rehearsing. And for a few
moments I had relief from the great blanketing grief that was constantly
crushing me. I hugged them and we laughed at my foolish worry. I sang with
them, and for a moment everything was wonderful. Wonderful.

But I always woke up, alone in the dark by the forest pool. What was I
doing out here? Where were my parents?

Then I would remember everything, like a wound ripping open. They were
dead and I was terribly alone. And that great weight that had been lifted for
just a moment would come crushing down again, worse than before because I
wasn’t ready for it. Then I would lay on my back, staring into the dark with
my chest aching and my breath coming hard, knowing deep inside that
nothing would ever be right, ever again.

When Pike threw me to the ground, my body was almost too numb to feel
my father’s lute being crushed underneath me. The sound it made was like a
dying dream, and it brought that same sick, breathless ache back to my chest.

I looked around and saw Pike breathing heavily and clutching his shoulder.
One of the boys was kneeling on the chest of the other. They weren’t
wrestling anymore, both were looking in my direction, stunned.

I stared numbly at my hands, bloody where slivers of wood had pierced the
skin.

“Little bastard bit me,” Pike said quietly, as if he couldn’t quite believe
what had happened.

“Get off me,” said the boy lying on his back.

“T said you shouldn’t say those things. Look what happened.”

Pike’s expression twisted and his face went a livid red. “Bit me!” he
shouted and swung a vicious kick at my head.

I tried to get out of the way without doing any more damage to the lute. His
kick caught me in the kidney and sent me sprawling into the wreckage again,
splintering it even further.

“See what happens when you mock Tehlu’s name?”

“Shut up about Tehlu. Get off me and grab that thing. It might still be worth
something to Diken.”

“Look what you did!” Pike continued to howl above me. A kick caught me
in the side and rolled me halfway over. The edges of my vision started to
darken. I almost welcomed it as a distraction. But the deeper pain was still
