“What if you give him a sword?”

Realization started to dawn on me, and | closed my eyes. “More, much
more. I understand, Ben. Really I do. Power is okay, and stupidity is usually
harmless. Power and stupidity together are dangerous.”

“T never said stupid,” Ben corrected me. “You’re clever.We both know that.
But you can be thoughtless. A clever, thoughtless person is one of the most
terrifying things there is. Worse, I’ve been teaching you some dangerous
things.”

Ben looked at the fire I’d laid out, then picked up a leaf, mumbled a few
words, and watched a small flame flicker into life in the center of the twigs
and tinder. He turned to look at me. “You could kill yourself doing something
as simple as that.” He gave a sickly grin. “Or looking for the name of the
wind.”

He started to say something else, then stopped and rubbed his face with his
hands. He gave a great sigh that seemed to deflate him. When he took his
hands away, his face was tired. “How old are you again?”

“Twelve next month.”

He shook his head. “It’s so easy to forget that. You don’t act your age.” He
poked at the fire with a stick, “I was eighteen when I began at the University,”
he said. “I was twenty before I knew as much as you do now.” He stared into
the fire. “I’m sorry Kvothe. I need to be alone tonight. I need to do some
thinking.”

I nodded silently. I went to his wagon, gathered tripod and kettle, water and
tea. I brought them back and quietly laid them beside Ben. He was still staring
into the fire when I turned away.

Knowing my parents wouldn’t expect me back for a while, I headed into
the forest. I had some thinking of my own to do. I owed Ben that much. I
wished I could do more.

It took a full span of days before Ben was his normal, jovial self again. But
even then things weren’t the same between us. We were still fast friends, but
there was something between us, and I could tell he was consciously holding
himself apart.

Lessons ground to a near standstill. He halted my fledgling study of
alchemy, limiting me to chemistry instead. He refused to teach me any
sygaldry at all, and on top of everything else, he began to ration what little
Sympathy he thought safe for me.

I chafed at the delays, but held my peace, trusting that if I showed myself to
be responsible and meticulously careful, he would eventually relax and things
would return to normal.We were family, and I knew that any trouble between
us would eventually be smoothed over. All I needed was time.
