was twisted unnaturally and the splintered bone showing through the skin was
very, very white.

I stood, unable to look away from Teren, the grey shirt, the red blood, the
white bone. I stared as if it were a diagram in a book I was trying to
understand. My body grew numb. I felt as if I was trying to think through
Syrup.

Some small rational part of me realized I was in deep shock. It repeated the
fact to me again and again. I used all Ben’s training to ignore it. I did not want
to think about what I saw. I did not want to know what had happened here. I
did not want to know what any of this meant.

After I don’t know how long, a wisp of smoke broke my line of vision. I sat
down next to the nearest fire in a daze. It was Shandi’s fire, and a small pot
hung simmering, boiling potatoes, strangely familiar among the chaos.

I focused on the kettle. Something normal. I used a stick to poke at the
contents and saw that they were finished cooking. Normal. I lifted the kettle
from the fire and set it on the ground next to Shandi’s body. Her clothes hung
in tatters about her. I tried to brush her hair away from her face and my hand
came back sticky with blood. The firelight reflected in her flat, empty eyes.

I stood and looked about aimlessly. Trip’s tent was entirely aflame by now,
and Shandi’s wagon was standing with one wheel in Marion’s campfire. All
the flames were tinged with blue, making the scene dreamlike and surreal.

I heard voices. Peering around the corner of Shandi’s wagon I saw several
unfamiliar men and women sitting around a fire. My parents’ fire. A dizziness
Swept over me and I reached out a hand to steady myself against the wagon’s
wheel. When I gripped it, the iron bands that reinforced the wheel crumbled
in my hand, flaking away in gritty sheets of brown rust. When I pulled my
hand away the wheel creaked and began to crack. I stepped back as it gave
way, the wagon splintering as if its wood were rotten as an old stump.

I now stood in full view of the fire. One of the men tumbled backward and
came to his feet with his sword out. His motion reminded me of quicksilver
rolling from a jar onto a tabletop: effortless and supple. His expression was
intent, but his body was relaxed, as if he had just stood and stretched.

His sword was pale and elegant. When it moved, it cut the air with a brittle
sound. It reminded me of the quiet that settles on the coldest days in winter
when it hurts to breathe and everything is still.

He was two dozen feet from me, but I could see him perfectly in the fading
light of sunset. I remember him as clearly as I remember my own mother,
sometimes better. His face was narrow and sharp, with the perfect beauty of
porcelain. His hair was shoulder length, framing his face in loose curls the
color of frost. He was a creature of winter’s pale. Everything about him was
cold and sharp and white.

Except his eyes. They were black like a goat’s but with no iris. His eyes
