At the end of seven years, Tehlu’s feet had carried him all through the
world. He had driven out the demons that plagued us. All but one. Encanis ran
free and did the work of a thousand demons, destroying and despoiling
wherever he went.

So Tehlu chased and Encanis fled. Soon Tehlu was a span of days behind
the demon, then two days, then half a day. Finally he was so close he felt the
chill of Encanis’ passing and could spy places where he had set his hands and
feet, for they were marked with a cold, black frost.

Knowing he was pursued, Encanis came to a great city. The Lord of
Demons called forth his power and the city was brought to ruin. He did this
hoping Tehlu would delay so he could make his escape, but the Walking God
paused only to appoint priests who cared for the people of the ruined town.

For six days Encanis fled, and six great cities he destroyed. But on the
seventh day, Tehlu drew near before Encanis could bring his power to bear
and the seventh city was saved. That is why seven is a lucky number, and why
we celebrate on Caenin.

Encanis was now hard pressed and bent his whole thought upon escape.
But on the eighth day Tehlu did not pause to sleep or eat. And thus it was that
at the end of Felling Tehlu caught Encanis. He leaped on the demon and
struck him with his forge hammer. Encanis fell like a stone, but Tehlu’s
hammer shattered and lay in the dust of the road.

Tehlu carried the demon’s limp body all through the long night, and on the
morning of the ninth day he came to the city of Atur. When men saw Tehlu
carrying the demon’s senseless form, they thought Encanis dead. But Tehlu
knew that such a thing was not easily done. No simple blade or blow could
kill him. No cell of bars could keep him safe within.

So Tehlu carried Encanis to the smithy. He called for iron, and people
brought all they owned. Though he had taken no rest nor a morsel of food, all
through the ninth day Tehlu labored. While ten men worked the bellows,
Tehlu forged the great iron wheel.

All night he worked, and when the first light of the tenth morning touched
him, Tehlu struck the wheel one final time and it was finished. Wrought all of
black iron, the wheel stood taller than a man. It had six spokes, each thicker
than a hammer’s haft, and its rim was a handspan across. It weighed as much
as forty men, and was cold to the touch. The sound of its name was terrible,
and none could speak it.

Tehlu gathered the people who were watching and chose a priest among
them. Then he set them to dig a great pit in the center of the town, fifteen feet
wide and twenty feet deep.

With the sun rising Tehlu laid the body of the demon on the wheel. At the
first touch of iron, Encanis began to stir in his sleep. But Tehlu chained him
tightly to the wheel, hammering the links together, sealing them tighter than
