before Aleph, his head bowed, his hands open at his sides.

Others came forward. Tall Kirel, who had been burned but left living in the
ash of Myr Tariniel. Deah, who had lost two husbands to the fighting, and
whose face and mouth and heart were hard and cold as stone. Enlas, who
would not carry a sword or eat the flesh of animals, and who no man had ever
known to speak hard words. Fair Geisa, who had a hundred suitors in Belen
before the walls fell. The first woman to know the unasked-for touch of man.

Lecelte, who laughed easily and often, even when there was woe thick
about him. Imet, hardly more than a boy, who never sang and killed swiftly
without tears. Ordal, the youngest of them all, who had never seen a thing die,
stood bravely before Aleph, her golden hair bright with ribbon. And beside
her came Andan, whose face was a mask with burning eyes, whose name
meant anger.

They came to Aleph, and he touched them. He touched their hands and
eyes and hearts. The last time he touched them there was pain, and wings tore
from their backs that they might go where they wished. Wings of fire and
Shadow. Wings of iron and glass. Wings of stone and blood.

Then Aleph spoke their long names and they were wreathed in a white fire.
The fire danced along their wings and they became swift. The fire flickered in
their eyes and they saw into the deepest hearts of men. The fire filled their
mouths and they sang songs of power. Then the fire settled on their foreheads
like silver stars and they became at once righteous and wise and terrible to
behold. Then the fire consumed them and they were gone forever from mortal
sight.

None but the most powerful can see them, and only then with great
difficulty and at great peril. They mete out justice to the world, and Tehlu is
the greatest of them all—”

“T have heard enough.” The speaker wasn’t loud, but he may as well have
shouted. When Skarpi told a story, any interruption was like chewing a grain
of sand in a mouthful of bread.

From the back of the room, two men in dark cloaks came toward the bar:
one tall and proud, one short and hooded. As they walked I saw a flash of
grey robe beneath their cloaks: Tehlin priests. Worse, I saw two other men
with armor under their cloaks. I hadn’t seen it while they were sitting, but
now that they were moving it was painfully obvious they were church
strongmen. Their faces were grim, and the lines of their cloaks spoke of
swords to me.

I wasn’t the only one who saw. The children were trickling out the door.
The smarter ones tried to appear casual, but some broke into a run before they
got outside. Against common sense three children stayed. There was a
