CHAPTER SEVENTEEN

Interlude—Autumn

KVOTHE HELD OUT A hand to Chronicler, then turned to his student,
frowning. “Stop looking at me like that, Bast.”

Bast looked close to tears. “Oh, Reshi,” he choked out. “I had no idea.”

Kvothe gestured as if cutting the air with the side of his hand. “There’s no
reason you should Bast, and no reason to make an issue out of it.”

“But Reshi.. .”

Kvothe gave his student a severe look. “What, Bast? Should I weep and
tear my hair? Curse Tehlu and his angels? Beat my chest? No. That is low
drama.” His expression softened somewhat. “I appreciate your concern, but
this is just a piece of the story, not even the worst piece, and I am not telling it
to garner sympathy.”

Kvothe pushed his chair back from the table and came to his feet. “Besides,
all of this happened long ago.” He made a dismissive gesture. “Time is the
great healer, and so on.”

He rubbed his hands together. “Now, I’m going to bring in enough wood to
get us though the night. There’ll be a chill if I’m any judge of weather. You
can get a couple loaves ready to bake while I’m out, and try to collect
yourself. I refuse to tell the rest of this story with you making blubbery cow
eyes at me.”

With that, Kvothe walked behind the bar and out through the kitchen
toward the back door of the inn.

Bast scrubbed roughly at his eyes, then watched his master go. “He’s fine
so long as he’s busy,” Bast said softly.

“I beg your pardon?” Chronicler said reflexively. He shifted awkwardly in
his seat, as if he wanted to get to his feet, but couldn’t think of a polite way to
excuse himself.

Bast gave a warm smile, his eyes a human blue again. “I was so excited
when I heard who you were, that he was going to tell his story. His mood’s
been so dark lately, and there’s nothing to shake him out of it, nothing to do
but sit and brood. I’m sure that remembering the good times will ...” Bast
grimaced. “I’m not saying this very well. I’m sorry for earlier. I wasn’t
thinking straight.”

“N-no,” Chronicler stammered hastily. “I’m the one—it was my fault, I’m
