“Regret, repent, and cross to me.”

Rengen stepped over the line to stand beside his God. Then Tehlu bent to
pick up the hammer that the smith had dropped. But instead of giving it back,
he struck Rengen with it as if it were a lash. Once. Twice. Thrice. And the
third blow sent Rengen to his knees sobbing and crying out in pain. But after
the third blow, Tehlu laid the hammer aside and knelt to look Rengen in the
face. “You were the first to cross,” he said softly so only the smith could hear.
“It was a brave thing, a hard thing to do. I am proud of you. You are no longer
Rengen, now you are Wereth, the forger of the path.” Then Tehlu embraced
him with both arms, and his touch took much of the pain from Rengen who
was now Wereth. But not all, for Tehlu spoke truly when he said that
punishment cannot be avoided.

One by one they crossed, and one by one Tehlu struck them down with the
hammer. But after each man or woman fell, Tehlu knelt and spoke to them,
giving them new names and healing some of their hurt.

Many of the men and women had demons hiding inside them that fled
screaming when the hammer touched them. These people Tehlu spoke with a
while longer, but he always embraced them in the end, and they were all
srateful. Some of them danced for the joy of being free of such terrible things
living inside them.

In the end, seven stayed on the other side of the line. Tehlu asked them
three times if they would cross, and three times they refused. After the third
asking Tehlu sprang across the line and he struck each of them a great blow,
driving them to the ground.

But not all were men. When Tehlu struck the fourth, there was the sound of
quenching iron and the smell of burning leather. For the fourth man had not
been a man at all, but a demon wearing a man’s skin. When it was revealed,
Tehlu grabbed the demon and broke it in his hands, cursing its name and
sending it back to the outer darkness that is the home of its kind.

The remaining three let themselves be struck down. None of them were
demons, though demons fled the bodies of some who fell. After he was done,
Tehlu did not speak to the six who did not cross, nor did he kneel to embrace
them and ease their wounds.

The next day, Tehlu set off to finish what he had begun. He walked from
town to town, offering each village he met the same choice he had given
before. Always the results were the same, some crossed, some stayed, some
were not men at all but demons, and those he destroyed.

But there was one demon who eluded Tehlu. Encanis, whose face was all in
shadow. Encanis, whose voice was like a knife in the minds of men.

Wherever Tehlu stopped to offer men the choice of path, Encanis had been
there just before, killing crops and poisoning wells. Encanis, setting men to
murder one another and stealing children from their beds at night.
