purse with your clothes, sir?”

I looked shocked. “Certainly not! ‘A gentleman’s hand is never far away
from his purse.’ So my father says.” I waved my purse at him to make my
point.

I noticed him trying to suppress a laugh and it made me feel a little better.
I’d made the man miserable for almost an hour, the least I could give him was
a story to tell his friends.

“She told me if I wanted to keep my dignity, then I’d give her my purse and
walk home wearing my clothes.” I shook my head scornfully. “ ‘Wanton, ’ I
said to her, ‘A gentleman’s dignity isn’t in his clothes. If I handed over my
purse simply to save myself an embarrassment then I would be handing over
my dignity.’ ”

I looked thoughtful for a second, then spoke softly as if thinking aloud. “It
only follows that a gentleman’s dignity is in his purse then.” I looked at the
purse in my hands, and gave a long pause. “I think I heard my father say
something of the sort the other day.”

Bentley gave a laugh that he turned into a cough, then stood up and shook
out the shirt and pants. “There you go, sir, fit you like a glove now.” A hint of
a smile played around his lips as he handed them to me.

I slid out of the robe and pulled on the pants. “They’ll get me home, I
Suppose. How much for your trouble, Bentley?” I asked.

He thought for a second. “One and two.”

I began to lace up my shirt and said nothing.

“Sorry, sir,” he said quickly. “Forgot who I was dealing with.” He
swallowed. “One even would do nicely.”

Taking out my purse, I put one silver talent into his hand and looked him in
the eye. “I will be needing some change.”

His mouth made a thin line, but he nodded and handed me back two jots.

I tucked the coins away and tied my purse firmly underneath my shirt, then
save him a meaningful look and patted it.

I saw the smile tug at his lips again. “Good-bye, sir.”

I picked up my towel, left the store, and started my altogether less
conspicuous walk back to the inn where I had found breakfast and a bath.

“What can I get for you, young sir?” the innkeeper asked as I approached the
bar. He smiled and wiped his hands on his apron.

“A stack of dirty dishes and a rag.”

He squinted at me, then smiled and laughed. “I’d thought you’d run off
naked through the streets.”

“Not quite naked.” I laid his towel on the bar.

“There was more dirt than boy before. And I would have bet a solid mark
