Only a fool would deny that.”

Then Ben was no longer there, and there was not one standing stone, but
many. More than I had ever seen in one place before. They formed a double
circle around me. One stone was set across the top of two others, forming a
huge arch with thick shadow underneath. I reached out to touch it... .

And awoke. My mind had covered a fresh pain with the names of a
hundred roots and berries, four ways to light a fire, nine snares made from
nothing but a sapling and string, and where to find fresh water.

I thought very little on the other matter of the dream. Ben had never taught
me sailors’ knots. My father had never finished his song.

I took inventory of what I had with me: a canvas sack, a small knife, a ball
of string, some wax, a Copper penny, two iron shims, and Rhetoric and Logic,
the book Ben had given me. Aside from my clothes and my father’s lute, I
had nothing else.

I set out looking for drinking water. “Water comes first,” Laclith had told
me. “Anything else you can do without for days.” I considered the lay of the
land and followed some animal trails. By the time I found a small spring-fed
pool nestled among some birch trees, I could see the sky purpling into dusk
behind the trees. I was terribly thirsty, but caution won out and I took only a
small drink.

Next I collected dry wood from the hollows of trees and under canopies. I
set a simple snare. I hunted for and found several stalks of motherleaf and
Spread the sap onto my fingers where they were bloody and torn. The stinging
helped distract me from remembering how I had hurt them.

Waiting for the sap to dry, I took my first casual look around. Oaks and
birches crowded each other for space. Their trunks made patterns of
alternating light and dark beneath the canopy of branches. A small rivulet ran
from the pool across some rocks and away to the east. It may have been
beautiful, but I didn’t notice. I couldn’t notice. To me the trees were shelter,
the undergrowth a source of nourishment, and the pool reflecting moonlight
only reminded me of my thirst.

There was also a great rectangular stone lying on its side near the pool. A
few days earlier I would have recognized it as a greystone. Now I saw it as an
efficient windbreak, something to put my back against as I slept.

Through the canopy I saw the stars were out. That meant it had been
several hours since I had tried the water. Since it hadn’t made me sick, I
decided it must be safe and took a long drink.

Rather than refreshing me, all my drink did was make me aware of how
hungry I was. I sat on the stone by the edge of the pool. I stripped the leaves
from the stalks of motherleaf and ate one. It was rough, papery, and bitter. I
ate the rest, but it didn’t help. I took another drink of water, then lay down to
Sleep, not caring that the stone was cold and hard, or at least pretending not to
