CHAPTER NINETEEN

Fingers and Strings

IN THE BEGINNING I was almost like an automaton, thoughtlessly
performing the actions that would keep me alive.

I ate the second rabbit I caught, and the third. I found a patch of wild
strawberries. I dug for roots. By the end of the fourth day, I had everything I
needed to survive: a stone-lined fire pit, a shelter for my lute. I had even
assembled a small stockpile of foodstuffs that I could fall back on in case of
emergency.

I also had one thing I did not need: time. After I had taken care of
immediate needs, I found I had nothing to do. I think this is when a small part
of my mind started to slowly reawaken itself.

Make no mistake, I was not myself. At least I was not the same person I
had been a span of days before. Everything I did I attended to with my whole
mind, leaving no part of me free for remembering.

I grew thinner and more ragged. I slept in rain or sun, on soft grass, moist
earth, or sharp stones with an intensity of indifference that only grief can
promote. The only notice I took of my surroundings was when it rained,
because then I could not bring out my lute to play, and that pained me.

Of course I played. It was my only solace.

By the end of the first month, my fingers had calluses hard as stones and I
could play for hours upon hours. I played and played again all of the songs I
knew from memory. Then I played the half-remembered songs as well, filling
in the forgotten parts as best I could.

Eventually I could play from when I woke until the time I slept. I stopped
playing the songs I knew and started inventing new ones. I had made up songs
before; I had even helped my father compose a verse or two. But now I gave
it my whole attention. Some of those songs have stayed with me to this day.

Soon after that I began playing .. . how can I describe it?

I began to play something other than songs.When the sun warms the grass
and the breeze cools you, it feels a certain way. I would play until I got the
feeling right. I would play until it sounded like Warm Grass and Cool Breeze.

I was only playing for myself, but I was a harsh audience. | remember
Spending nearly three whole days trying to capture Wind Turning a Leaf.

By the end of the second month, I could play things nearly as easily as I
