I got presents. Trip gave me a belt knife with a leather grip, claiming that
all boys should have something they can hurt themselves with. Shandi gave
me a lovely cloak she had made, scattered with little pockets for a boy’s
treasures. My parents gave me a lute, a beautiful thing of smooth dark wood. I
had to play a song of course, and Ben sang with me. I slipped a little on the
strings of the unfamiliar instrument, and Ben wandered off looking for notes
once or twice, but it was nice.

Ben opened up a small keg of mead he had been saving for “just such an
occasion.” I remember it tasting the way I felt, sweet and bitter and sullen.

Several people had collaborated to write “The Ballad of Ben, Brewer
Supreme.” My father recited it as gravely as if it were the Modegan royal
lineage while accompanying himself on a half harp. Everyone laughed until
they hurt, and Ben twice as much as everyone else.

At some point in the night, my mother swept me up and danced around in a
great spinning circle. Her laughter sang out like music trailing in the wind.
Her hair and skirt spun around me as she twirled. She smelled comforting, the
way only mothers do. That smell, and the quick laughing kiss she gave me did
more to ease the dull ache of Ben’s leaving than all the entertainments
combined.

Shandi offered to do a special dance for Ben, but only if he came into her
tent to see it. I’d never seen Ben blush before, but he did it well. He hesitated,
and when he refused it was obviously about as easy for him as tearing out his
own soul. Shandi protested and pouted prettily, saying she’d been practicing it
for a long time. Finally she dragged him into the tent, their disappearance
encouraged by a cheer from the entire troupe.

Trip and Teren staged a mock sword fight that was one part breathtaking
swordplay, one part dramatic soliloquy (provided by Teren), and one part
buffoonery that I’m sure Trip must have invented on the spot. It ranged all
over the camp. In the course of the fight Trip managed to break his sword,
hide under a lady’s dress, fence with a sausage, and perform such fantastical
acrobatics that it’s a miracle he didn’t seriously injure himself. Although he
did split his pants up the back.

Dax set himself alight while attempting a spectacular bit of fire breathing
and had to be doused. All he suffered was a bit of singed beard and a slightly
bruised pride. He recovered quickly under Ben’s tender ministrations, a mug
of mead, and a reminder that not everyone was cut out to have eyebrows.

My parents sang “The Lay of Sir Savien Traliard.” Like most of the great
songs, Sir Savien was written by Illien, and generally considered to be his
crowning work.

It’s a beautiful song, made more so by the fact that I’d only heard my father
perform the whole thing a handful of times before. It’s hellishly complex, and
my father was probably the only one in the troupe who could do it justice.
