any lock.

Then Tehlu stepped back, and all saw Encanis shift again, as if disturbed by
an unpleasant dream. Then he shook and came awake entirely. Encanis
Strained against the chains, his body arching upward as he pulled against
them. Where the iron touched his skin it felt like knives and needles and nails,
like the searing pain of frost, like the sting of a hundred biting flies. Encanis
thrashed on the wheel and began to howl as the iron burned and bit and froze
him.

To Tehlu the sound was like a sweet music. He lay down on the ground
beside the wheel and slept a deep sleep, for he was very tired.

When he awoke, it was evening of the tenth day. Encanis was still bound to
the wheel, but he no longer howled and fought like a trapped animal. Tehlu
bent and with great effort lifted one edge of the wheel and set it leaning
against a tree that grew nearby. As soon as he came close, Encanis cursed him
in languages no one knew, scratching and biting.

“You brought this on yourself,” Tehlu said.

That night there was a celebration. Tehlu sent men to cut a dozen
evergreens and use them to kindle a bonfire in the bottom of the deep pit they
had dug.

All night the townsfolk danced and sang around the burning fire. They
knew the last and most dangerous of the world’s demons was finally caught.

And all night Encanis hung from his wheel and watched them, motionless
as a Snake.

When the morning of the eleventh day came, Tehlu went to Encanis a third
and final time. The demon looked worn and feral. His skin was sallow and his
bones pressed tight against his skin. But his power still lay around him like a
dark mantle, hiding his face in shadow.

“Encanis,” Tehlu said. “This is your last chance to speak. Do it, for I know
it is within your power.”

“Lord Tehlu, I am not Encanis.” For that brief moment the demon’s voice
was pitiful, and all who heard it were moved to sorrow. But then there was a
sound like quenching iron, and the wheel rung like an iron bell. Encanis’ body
arched painfully at the sound then hung limply from his wrists as the ringing
of the wheel faded.

“Try no tricks, dark one. Speak no lies,” Tehlu said sternly, his eyes as dark
and hard as the iron of the wheel.

“What then?” Encanis hissed, his voice like the rasp of stone on stone.
“What? Rack and shatter you, what do you want of me?”

“Your road is very short, Encanis. But you may still choose a side on which
to travel.”

Encanis laughed. “You will give me the same choice you give the cattle?
Yes then, I will cross to your side of the path, I regret and rep—”’
