CHAPTER THIRTY-TWO

Coppers, Cobblers and Crowds

IT WAS ABOUT AN hour before noon when I stepped out onto the street.
The sun was out and the cobblestones were warm beneath my feet. As the
noise of the market rose to an irregular hum around me, I tried to enjoy the
pleasant sensation of having a full belly and a clean body.

But there was a vague unease in the pit of my stomach, like the feeling you
set when someone’s staring at the back of your head. It followed me until my
instincts got the better of me and I slipped into a side alley quick as a fish.

As I stood pressed against a wall, waiting, the feeling faded. After a few
minutes, I began to feel foolish. I trusted my instincts, but they gave false
alarms every now and again. I waited a few more minutes just to be sure, then
moved back into the street.

The feeling of vague unease returned almost immediately. I ignored it
while trying to find out where it was coming from. But after five minutes |
lost my nerve and turned onto a side street, watching the crowd to see who
was following me.

No one. It took a nerve-wracking half hour and two more alleys before I
finally figured out what it was.

It felt strange to be walking with the crowd.

Over the last couple years crowds had become a part of the scenery of the
city to me. I might use a crowd to hide from a guard or a storekeeper. I might
move through a crowd to get where I was going. I might even be going in the
Same direction as the crowd, but I was never a part of it.

I was so used to being ignored, I almost ran from the first merchant who
tried to sell me something.

Once I knew what was bothering me, the greater part of my uneasiness left.
Fear tends to come from ignorance. Once I knew what the problem was, it
was just a problem, nothing to fear.

As I’ve mentioned, Tarbean has two main sections: Hillside and Waterside.
Waterside was poor. Hillside was rich. Waterside stank. Hillside was clean.
Waterside had thieves. Hillside had bankers—I’m sorry, burglars.

I have already told the story of my one ill-auspiced venture Hillside. So
