He fanned the ink dry and slid my “receipt” across the desk toward me.
“What does D stand for?” he asked with the barest hint of a smile.

“Defeasance,” I said. “It means to render something null and void, usually
a contract. The second D is for Decrepitate. Which is the act of throwing
someone into a fire.” He gave me a blank look. “Decrepication is the
punishment for forgery in Junpui. I think false receipts fall in that category.”

I made no move to touch the money or the receipt. There was a tense
Silence.

“This isn’t Junpui,” he said, his face carefully composed.

“True enough,” I admitted. “You have a keen sense of defalcation. Perhaps
I should add a third D.”

He gave another sharp, barking laugh and smiled. “You’ve convinced me,
young master.” He pulled out a fresh slip of paper and set it in front of me.
“You write me a receipt, and I will sign it.”

I took up the pen and wrote. “I the undersigned, do agree to return the copy
of the book Rhetoric and Logic with the inscription “to Kvothe” to the bearer
of this note in exchange for two silver pennies, provided he present this
receipt before the date—”

I looked up. “What day is it?”

“Shuden. The thirty-fifth.”

I had fallen out of the habit of keeping track of the date. On the streets, one
day is largely the same as the next, save that people are a little more drunk on
Hepten, a little more generous on Mourning.

But if it was the thirty-fifth then I only had five days to get to the
University. I knew from Ben that admissions only lasted until Cendling. If I
missed them, I would have to wait two months for the next term to start.

I filled in the date on the receipt and drew a line for the bookseller to sign.
He looked a little bemused as I slid the paper toward him. What’s more, he
didn’t notice that the receipt read pennies instead of talents. Talents were
worth significantly more. This meant he had just agreed to give me back the
book for less money than he had bought it for.

My satisfaction damped itself when it occurred to me how foolish all of this
was. Pennies or talents, I wouldn’t have enough money to buy the book back
in two span. If everything went well I wouldn’t even be in Tarbean tomorrow.

Despite its uselessness, the receipt helped ease the sting of parting with the
last thing I owned from my childhood. I blew on the paper, folded it carefully
into a pocket, and collected my two silver talents. I was surprised when the
man held out his hand to me.

He smiled in an apologetic way. “Sorry about the note. But you didn’t look
like you’d be coming back.” He gave a little shrug. “Here.” He pressed a
copper jot into my hand.

I decided that he was not an altogether bad fellow. I smiled back at him and
