where she watched, Perial burst into tears, for though she trusted Tehlu, some
part of her had held a mother’s worry for her son.

“T am not Menda, though that is what my mother called me. I am Tehlu,
lord above all. I have come to free you from demons and the wickedness of
your own hearts. I am Tehlu, son of myself. Let the wicked hear my voice and
tremble.”

And they did tremble. But some of them refused to believe. They called
him a demon and threatened him. They spoke hard, frightened words. Some
threw stones and cursed him, and spat toward him and his mother.

Then Tehlu grew angry, and he might have slain them all, but Perial leaped
forward and laid a restraining hand on his shoulder. “What more can you
expect?” she asked him quietly. “From men who live with demons for their
neighbors? Even the best dog will bite that has been kicked enough.”

Tehlu considered her words and saw that she was wise. So he looked over
his hands at Rengen, looked deep into his heart and said, “Rengen, son of
Engen, you have a mistress who you pay to lie with you. Some men come to
you for work and you cheat or steal from them. And though you pray loudly,
you do not believe I, Tehlu, made the world and watch over all who live
here.”

When Rengen heard this, he grew pale and dropped his hammer to the
sround. For what Tehlu said to him was true. Tehlu looked at all the men and
women there. He looked into their hearts and spoke of what he saw. All of
them were wicked, so much that Rengen was among the best of them.

Then Tehlu drew a line in the dirt of the road so that it lay between himself
and all those who had come. “This road is like the meandering course of a
life. There are two paths to take, side by side. Each of you are already
traveling that side. You must choose. Stay on your own path, or cross to
mine.”

“But the road is the same, isn’t it? It still goes to the same place,” someone
asked.

“Yes.”

“Where does the road lead?”

“Death. All lives end in death, excepting one. Such is the way of things.”

“Then what does it matter which side a man is on?” It was Rengen asking
these questions. He was a large man, one of the few that was taller than dark-
eyed Tehlu. But he was shaken by all that he had seen and heard in the past
few hours. “What is on our side of the road?”

“Pain,” Tehlu said in a voice as hard and cold as stone. “Punishment.”

“And your side?”

“Pain now,” Tehlu said in the same voice. “Punishment now, for all that
you have done. It cannot be avoided. But I am here too, this is my path.”

“How do I cross?”
