cold.

There were inns, but aside from the occasional drink I stole from horse
troughs, I gave them a wide berth. There were a few small towns as well, but I
needed someplace larger. Farmers have no need for lute strings.

At first, whenever I heard a wagon or a horse approaching I found myself
limping off to hide by the side of the road. I had not spoken with another
human since the night my family was killed. I was more akin to a wild animal
than a boy of twelve. But eventually the road became too large and well
traveled, and I found myself spending more time hiding than walking. I
finally braved the traffic and was relieved when I was largely ignored.

I had been walking for less than an hour one morning when I heard a wagon
coming up behind me. The road was wide enough for two wagons to run
abreast, but I moved to the grass at the edge of the road anyway.

“Hey, boy!” a rough male voice behind me yelled. I didn’t turn around.
“Hullo, boy!”

I moved farther off the road into the grass without looking behind me. I
kept my eyes on the ground beneath my feet.

The wagon pulled slowly alongside me. The voice bellowed twice as loud
as before, “Boy. Boy!”

I looked up and saw a weathered old man squinting against the sun. He
could have been anywhere from forty to seventy years old. There was a thick-
shouldered, plain-faced young man sitting next to him on the wagon. I
guessed they were father and son.

“Are ye deaf, boy?” The old man pronounced it deef.

I shook my head.

“Ye dumb then?”

I shook my head again. “No.” It felt strange talking to someone. My voice
sounded odd, rough and rusty from disuse.

He squinted at me. “You goin’ into the city?”

I nodded, not wanting to talk again.

“Get in then.” He nodded toward the back of the wagon. “Sam won’t mind
pulling a little whippet like yuself.” He patted the rump of his mule.

It was easier to agree than run away. And the blisters on my feet were
stinging from the sweat in my shoes. I moved to the back of the open cart and
climbed on, pulling my lute after me. The back of the open wagon was about
three-quarters full of large burlap bags. A few round, knobby squash had
spilled from an open sack and were rolling aimlessly around on the floor.

The old man shook the reins. “Hup!” and the mule grudgingly picked up its
pace. I picked up the few loose squash and tucked them into the bag that had
fallen open. The old farmer gave me a smile over his shoulder. “Thanks, boy.
