this,” he agreed. “Why?”

Lanre paused. “My wife is dead. Deceit and treachery brought me to it, but
her death is on my hands.” He swallowed and turned to look out over the
land.

Selitos followed his eyes. From the vantage high in the mountains he saw
plumes of dark smoke rising from the land below. Selitos knew with certainty
and horror that Myr Tariniel was not the only city that had been destroyed.
Lanre’s allies had brought about the ruin of the last bastions of the empire.

Lanre turned. “And I counted among the best.” Lanre’s face was terrible to
look upon. Grief and despair had ravaged it. “I, considered wise and good, did
all this!” He gestured wildly. “Imagine what unholy things a lesser man must
hold within his secret heart.” Lanre faced Myr Tariniel and a sort of peace
came over him. “For them, at least, it is over. They are safe. Safe from the
thousand evils of the everyday. Safe from the pains of an unjust fate.”

Selitos spoke softly, “Safe from the joy and wonder .. .”

“There is no joy!” Lanre shouted in an awful voice. Stones shattered at the
sound and the sharp edges of echo came back to cut at them. “Any joy that
srows here is quickly choked by weeds. I am not some monster who destroys
out of a twisted pleasure. I sow salt because the choice is between weeds and
nothing.” Selitos saw nothing but emptiness behind his eyes.

Selitos stooped to pick up a jagged shard of mountain glass, pointed at one
end.

“Will you kill me with a stone?” Lanre gave a hollow laugh. “I wanted you
to understand, to know it was not madness that made me do these things.”

“You are not mad,” Selitos admitted. “I see no madness in you.”

“I hoped, perhaps, that you would join me in what I aim to do.” Lanre
spoke with a desperate longing in his voice. “This world is like a friend with a
mortal wound. A bitter draught given quickly only eases pain.”

“Destroy the world?” Selitos said softly to himself. “You are not mad,
Lanre. What grips you is something worse than madness. I cannot cure you.”
He fingered the needle-sharp point of the stone he held.

“Will you kill me to cure me, old friend?” Lanre laughed again, terrible and
wild. Then he looked at Selitos with sudden, desperate hope in his hollow
eyes. “Can you?” he asked. “Can you kill me, old friend?”

Selitos, his eyes unveiled, looked at his friend. He saw how Lanre, nearly
mad with grief, had sought the power to bring Lyra back to life again. Out of
love for Lyra, Lanre had sought knowledge where knowledge is better left
alone, and gained it at a terrible price.

But even in the fullness of his hard-won power, he could not call Lyra back.
Without her, Lanre’s life was nothing but a burden, and the power he had
taken up lay like a hot knife in his mind. To escape despair and agony, Lanre
had killed himself. Taking the final refuge of all men, attempting to escape
