SOITY.”

Bast shook his head. “You were just surprised, but you only tried to bind
me.” His expression grew a little pained. “Not that it was pleasant, mind. It
feels like being kicked between your legs, but all over your body. It makes
you feel sick, and weak, but it’s just pain. It wasn’t like you’d actually
wounded me.” Bast looked embarrassed. “I was going to do more than hurt
you. I might have killed you before I even stopped to think.”

Before an uncomfortable silence developed, Chronicler said, “Why don’t
we take his word that we were both suffering from blinding idiocy, and leave
it at that?” Chronicler managed a sickly smile that was heartfelt in spite of the
circumstances. “Peace?” he extended his hand.

“Peace.” They shook hands with much more genuine warmth than they had
earlier. AS Bast reached across the table his sleeve pulled back to reveal a
bruise blossoming around his wrist.

Bast self-consciously pulled his cuff back into place. “From when he
srabbed me,” he said quickly. “He’s stronger than he looks. Don’t mention it
to him. He’! only feel bad.”

Kvothe emerged from the kitchen and shut the door behind himself. Looking
around, he seemed surprised that it was a mild autumn afternoon rather than
the springtime forest of his story. He lifted the handles of a flat-bottomed
barrow and trundled it out into the woods behind the inn, his feet crunching in
the fallen leaves.

Not too far into the trees was the winter’s wood supply. Cord on cord of
oak and ash were stacked to make tall, crooked walls between the trunks of
trees. Kvothe tossed two pieces of firewood into the wheelbarrow where they
struck the bottom like a muted drum. Another two followed them. His
motions were precise, his face blank, his eyes far away.

As he continued to load the barrow, he moved slower and slower, like a
machine winding down. Eventually he stopped completely and stood for a
long minute, still as stone. Only then did his composure break. And even with
no one there to see, he hid his face in his hands and wept quietly, his body
wracked with wave on wave of heavy, silent sobs.

OceanofPDF.com
