“Hmmm?” The old man looked around and saw me for the first time. “Oh.
Hello.” He looked back to the boy on the bed. “Well aren’t you the clever one
today? Tanee called me in to see we have a visitor!” Tanee’s face broke into a
terrific grin and he gave a harsh, honking gasp of breath. In spite of the
painful sound, it was clear he was laughing.

Turning to look at me, the barefoot man said, “I don’t recognize you. Have
you been here before?”’

I shook my head.

“Well, I’ve got some bread, only two days old. If you carry some water for
me, you can have as much as you can eat.” He looked at me. “Does that sound
all right?”

I nodded. A chair, table, and an open barrel standing near one of the doors
were the only furnishings in the room aside from the cots. Four large, round
loaves were stacked on the table.

He nodded too, then began to move carefully toward the chair. He walked
gingerly, as if it pained him to set his feet down.

After he reached the chair and sank into it, he pointed to the barrel by the
doorway. “Through the door there’s a pump and bucket. Don’t bother to
hurry, it’s na a race.” As he spoke he absentmindedly crossed his legs and
began to rub one of his bare feet.

Inefficient circulation, a long-unused part of me thought. Increased risk of
infection and considerable discomfort. Feet and legs should be raised,
massaged, and swabbed in a warm infusion of willow bark, camphor, and
arrowroot.

“Don’t fill the bucket too full. I don’t want you to hurt yourself or spill all
over. It’s wet enough down here.” He eased his foot back to the floor and bent
to gather up one of the tiny children who was beginning to stir restlessly on
the blanket.

As I filled the barrel I snuck glances at the man. His hair was grey, but
despite that and the slow, tender manner in which he walked, he wasn’t very
Old. Perhaps forty, probably a little less. He wore a long robe, patched and
mended to such a degree that I couldn’t really guess at its original color or
Shape. Though nearly as ragged as I was, he was cleaner. Which isn’t to say
that he was clean exactly, just cleaner than me. It wasn’t hard to be.

His name was Trapis. The patched robe was the only piece of clothing he
owned. He spent nearly every moment of his waking life in that damp
basement caring for the hopeless people no one else would bother with. Most
of them were young boys. Some, like Tanee, had to be restrained so they
wouldn’t hurt themselves or roll out of their beds. Others, like Jaspin who had
gone fever-mad two years ago, had to be restrained so they wouldn’t hurt
others.

Palsied, crippled, catatonic, spastic, Trapis tended them all with equal and
