younger. They were a strange mix to see, ranging from grubby, shoeless
urchins like myself, to reasonably well-dressed, well-scrubbed children who
probably had parents and homes.

None of them looked familiar to me, but I never knew who might be a
friend of Pike’s. I found a place near the door with my back to the wall and
sank down onto my haunches.

Skarpi cleared his throat once or twice in a way that made me thirsty. Then,
with ritual significance, he looked mournfully into the clay mug that sat in
front of him and carefully turned it upside down on the bar.

The children surged forward, pressing coins onto the bar. I did a quick
count: two iron halfpennies, nine shims, and a drab. Altogether, just a little
over three iron pennies in Commonwealth coin. Maybe he was no longer
offering the silver talent bet. More likely the rumor I’d heard was wrong.

The old man nodded almost imperceptibility to the bartender. “Fallows
Red.” His voice was deep and rough, almost hypnotic. The bald man behind
the bar gathered up the coins and deftly poured wine into Skarpi’s wide clay
cup.

“So, what would everyone like to hear about today?” Skarpi rumbled. His
deep voice rolling out like distant thunder.

There was a moment of silence that again struck me as ritualistic, almost
reverent. Then a babble burst forth from all the children at once.

“T want a faerie story!”

“,.. Oren and the fight at Mnat’s.. .”

“Yes, Oren Velciter! The one with Baron...”

“Lartam...”

“Myr Tariniel!”’

“Tllien and the Bear!”

“Lanre,” I said, almost without meaning to.

The room went still again as Skarpi took a drink. The children watched him
with a familiar intensity I couldn’t quite identify.

Skarpi sat calmly in the middle of the quiet. “Did I,” his voice rolled out
Slowly, like dark honey, “hear someone say Lanre?” He looked directly at me,
his blue eyes clear and sharp.

I nodded, not knowing what to expect.

“T want to hear about the dry lands over the Stormwal,” one of the younger
girls complained. “About the sand snakes that come out of the ground like
Sharks. And the dry men who hide under the dunes and drink your blood
instead of water. And—” She was cuffed quickly into silence from a dozen
different directions by the children surrounding her.

Silence fell sharply as Skarpi took another drink. Watching the children as
they watched Skarpi, I realized what they reminded me of: a person anxiously
watching a clock. I guessed that when the old man’s drink was gone, the story
