much.

It was my habit to wander away from the troupe in the evenings. I usually
had some sort of errand to run while my parents set up for dinner. But it was
just an excuse for us to get away from each other. Privacy is hard to come by
on the road, and they needed it as much as I did. So if it took me an hour to
gather an armload of firewood they didn’t mind. And if they hadn’t started
dinner by the time I came back, well, that was only fair, wasn’t it?

I hope they spent those last few hours well. I hope they didn’t waste them
on mindless tasks: kindling the evening fire and cutting vegetables for dinner.
I hope they sang together, as they so often did. I hope they retired to our
wagon and spent time in each other’s arms. I hope they lay near each other
afterward and spoke softly of small things. I hope they were together, busy
with loving each other, until the end came.

It is a small hope, and pointless really. They are just as dead either way.

Still, I hope.

Let us pass over the time I spent alone in the woods that evening, playing
games that children invent to amuse themselves. The last carefree hours of my
life. The last moments of my childhood.

Let us pass Over my return to the camp just as the sun was beginning to set.
The sight of bodies strewn about like broken dolls. The smell of blood and
burning hair. How I wandered aimlessly about, too disoriented for proper
panic, numb with shock and dread.

I would pass over the whole of that evening, in fact. I would spare you the
burden of any of it if one piece were not necessary to the story. It is vital. It is
the hinge upon which the story pivots like an opening door. In some ways,
this is where the story begins.

So let’s have done with it.

Scattered patches of smoke hung in the still evening air. It was quiet, as if
everyone in the troupe was listening for something. As if they were all
holding their breath. An idle wind tussled the leaves in the trees and wafted a
patch of smoke like a low cloud toward me. I stepped out of the forest and
through the smoke, heading into the camp.

I left the cloud of smoke and rubbed some of the sting from my eyes. As I
looked around I saw Trip’s tent lying half collapsed and smoldering in his
fire. The treated canvas burned fitfully, and the acrid grey smoke hung close
to the ground in the quiet evening air.

I saw Teren’s body lying by his wagon, his sword broken in his hand. The
green and grey he normally wore was wet and red with blood. One of his legs
