Though he didn’t particularly show it, I knew it was taxing even for him. My
mother sang the counter-harmony, her voice soft and lilting. Even the fire
seemed subdued when they took a breath. I felt my heart lift and dive. I wept
as much for the glory of two voices so perfectly enmeshed as for the tragedy
of the song.

Yes, I cried at the end of it. I did then, and I have every time since. Even a
reading of the story aloud will bring tears to my eyes. In my opinion, anyone
who isn’t moved by it is less than human inside.

There was a momentary quiet after they finished, wherein everyone wiped
their eyes and blew their noses. Then, after a suitable period of recovery had
elapsed, someone called out, “Lanre! Lanre!”

The shout was taken up by several other people. “Yes, Lanre!”

My father gave a wry smile and shook his head. He never performed any
part of a song until it was finished.

“C’mon, Arl!” Shandi called out. “You’ve been stewing it long enough. Let
some out of the pot.”

He shook his head again, still smiling. “It’s not ready yet.” He bent down
and carefully set his lute into its case.

“Let’s have a taste, Arliden.” It was Teren this time.

“Yeah, for Ben’s sake. It’s not fair that he should have to hear you mumble
over it for all this while and not get...”

“\.. are wondering what you’re doing in that wagon with your wife if it’s
not...”

“Sing it!”

“Lanre!”

Trip quickly organized the whole troupe into a great chanting, howling
mass that my father managed to withstand for almost a minute before he
stooped and lifted his lute back out of the case. Everyone cheered.

The crowd hushed as soon as he sat back down. He tuned a string or two,
even though he’d only just set it down. He flexed his fingers and struck a few
soft, experimental notes, then swept into the song so gently that I caught
myself listening to it before I knew it had begun. Then my father’s voice
spoke over the rise and fall of the music.

“Sit and listen all, for I will sing

A story, wrought and forgotten in a time
Old and gone. A story of a man.

Proud Lanre, strong as the spring

Steel of the sword he had at ready hand.
Hear how he fought, fell, and rose again,
To fall again. Under shadow falling then.
Love felled him, love for native land,
