cursed his name or ceased her praying, and she never treated any person other
than with kindness and respect.

So late one night, Tehlu went to her in a dream. He stood before her, and
seemed to be made entirely of fire or sunlight. He came to her in splendor and
asked her if she knew who he was.

“Sure enough,” she said. You see, she was very calm about it because she
thought she was just having an odd dream. “You’re Lord Tehlu.”

He nodded and asked her if she knew why he had come to her.

“Are you going to do something for my neighbor Deborah?” she asked.
Because that’s who she had prayed for before she went to sleep. “Are you
going to lay your hand on her husband Losel and make him a better man? The
way he treats her isn’t right. Man should never lay a hand on woman, save in
love.”

Tehlu knew her neighbors. He knew they were wicked people who had
done wicked things. Everyone in the village was wicked but her. Everyone in
the world was. He told her so.

“Deborah has been very kind and good to me,” Perial said. “And even
Losel, who I don’t care for, is one of my neighbors all the same.”

Tehlu told her that Deborah spent time in many different men’s beds, and
Losel drank every day of the week, even on Mourning. No, wait—there
wasn’t any Mourning yet. But he drank a lot at any rate. Sometimes he grew
so angry that he beat his wife until she could not stand or even cry aloud.

Perial was quiet for a long moment in her dream. She knew Tehlu spoke the
truth, but while Perial was pure of heart, she was not a fool. She had
suspected her neighbors of doing the things Tehlu said. Even now that she
knew for certain, she cared for her neighbors all the same. “You won’t help
her?”

Tehlu said that the man and wife were each other’s fitting punishment.
They were wicked and the wicked should be punished.

Perial spoke out honestly, perhaps because she thought she was dreaming,
but perhaps she would have said the same thing had she been awake, for
Perial said what was in her heart. “It’s not their fault that the world is full of
hard choices and hunger and loneliness,” she said. “What can you expect of
people when demons are their neighbors?”

But though Tehlu listened to her wise words with his ears, he told her that
mankind was wicked, and the wicked should be punished.

“T think you know very little about what it is to be a man,” she said. “And I
would still help them if I could,” she told him resolutely.

SO YOU SHALL, Tehlu told her, and reached out to lay his hand on her
heart. When he touched her she felt like she were a great golden bell that had
just rung out its first note. She opened her eyes and knew then that it had been
no normal dream.
