your hair was black. You really don’t look the same.” He marveled mutely for
a second. “Would you like your old clothes?”

I shook my head. “Throw them away—actually, burn them, and make sure
no one accidentally breathes the smoke.” He laughed again. “I did have some
other items though.” I reminded him.

He nodded and tapped the side of his nose. “Right enough. Just a second.”
He turned and disappeared though a doorway behind the bar.

I let my attention wander around the room. It seemed different now that I
wasn’t attracting hostile stares. The fieldstone fireplace with the black kettle
simmering. The slightly sour smells of varnished wood and spilled beer. The
low rumble of conversation... .

I’ve always had a fondness for taverns. It comes from growing up on the
road, I think. A tavern is a safe place, a refuge of sorts. I felt very comfortable
just then, and it occurred to me that it wouldn’t be a bad life, owning a place
like this.

“Here you go then.” The innkeeper laid down three pens, a jar of ink, and
my receipt from the bookstore. “These gave me almost as much of a puzzle as
why you had run off without your clothes.”

“I’m going to the University.” I explained.

He raised an eyebrow. “A little young, aren’t you?”

I felt a nervous chill at his words, but shrugged it off. “They take all kinds.”

He nodded politely as if that explained why I had shown up barefoot and
reeking of back alleys. After waiting for a while to see if I’d elaborate, the
barman poured himself a drink. “No offense, but you don’t exactly look to be
the sort who would want to be washin’ dishes anymore.”

I opened my mouth to protest; an iron penny for an hour’s work was a
bargain I was hesitant to pass up. Two pennies was the same as a loaf of
bread, and I couldn’t count all the times that I had been hungry in the last
year.

Then I saw my hands resting on the bar. They were pink and clean, I almost
didn’t recognize them for my own.

I realized then I didn’t want to do the dishes. I had more important things to
do. I stood back from the bar and got a penny from my purse. “Where’s the
best place to find a caravan leaving for the north?” I asked.

“Drover’s Lot, up Hillside. Quarter mile past the mill on Green Street.”

I felt a nervous chill when Hillside was mentioned. I ignored it as best I
could and nodded. “You have a lovely inn here. I’d count myself lucky to
have one as nice when I’ve grown up.” I handed him the penny.

He broke into a huge smile and handed back the penny. “With such nice
compliments, you come back any time.”

OceanofPDF.com
