rang with it. Tehlu grabbed the hands of the demon and pressed them back
against the wheel.

Encanis screamed in fury and in disbelief, for though he was forced back
onto the burning wheel, and though he felt the strength of Tehlu was greater
than chains he had broken, he saw Tehlu was burning in the flames.

“Fool!” he wailed. “You will die here with me. Let me go and live. Let me
go and I will trouble you no further.” And the wheel did not ring out, for
Encanis was truly frightened.

“No,” said Tehlu. “Your punishment is death. You will serve it.”

“Fool! Madling!” Encanis thrashed to no avail. “You are burning in the
flames with me, you will die as I do!”

“To ash all things return, so too this flesh will burn. But I am Tehlu. Son of
myself. Father of myself. I was before, and I will be after. If I am a sacrifice
then it is to myself alone. And if I am needed and called in the proper ways
then I will come again to judge and punish.”

So Tehlu held him to the burning wheel, and none of the demon’s threats or
screaming moved him the least part of an inch. So it was that Encanis passed
from the world, and with him went Tehlu who was Menda. Both of them
burned to ash in the pit in Atur. That is why the Tehlin priests wear robes of
ashen grey. And that is how we know Tehlu cares for us, and watches us, and
keeps us safe from—

Trapis broke off his story as Jaspin began to howl and thrash against his
restraints. I slid softly back into unconsciousness as soon as I no longer had
the story to hold my attention.

After that, I began to harbor a suspicion that never entirely left me. Was
Trapis a Tehlin priest? His robe was tattered and dirty, but it might have been
the proper grey long ago. Parts of his story had been awkward and stumbling,
but some were stately and grand, as if he had been reciting them from some
half-forgotten memory. Of sermons? Of his readings from the Book of the
Path?

I never asked. And though I stopped by his basement frequently in the
months that followed, I never heard Trapis tell another story again.

OceanofPDF.com
