Together they walked the mountain paths. Lanre leading the way, they
came to a high place in the mountains where they could look out over the
land. The proud towers of Myr Tariniel shone brightly in the last light of the
setting sun.

After a long time Selitos said, “I have heard terrible rumors concerning
your wife.”

Lanre said nothing, and from his silence Selitos knew that Lyra was dead.

After another long pause Selitos tried again. “Though I do not know the
whole of the matter, Myr Tariniel is here for you, and I will lend whatever aid
a friend can give.”

“You have given me enough, old friend.” Lanre turned and placed his hand
on Selitos’ shoulder. “Silanxi, I bind you. By the name of stone, be still as
stone. Aeruh, I command the air. Lay leaden on your tongue. Selitos, I name
you. May all your powers fail you but your sight.”

Selitos knew that in all the world there were only three people who could
match his skill in names: Aleph, Iax, and Lyra. Lanre had no gift for names—
his power lay in the strength of his arm. For him to attempt to bind Selitos by
his name would be as fruitless as a boy attacking a soldier with a willow stick.

Nevertheless, Lanre’s power lay on him like a great weight, like a vise of
iron, and Selitos found himself unable to move or speak. He stood, still as
stone and could do nothing but marvel: how had Lanre come by such power?

In confusion and despair, Selitos watched night settle in the mountains.
With horror he saw that some of the encroaching blackness was, in fact, a
sreat army moving upon Myr Tariniel. Worse still, no warning bells were
ringing. Selitos could only stand and watch as the army crept closer in secret.

Myr Tariniel was burned and butchered, the less that is said of it the better.
The white walls were charred black and the fountains ran with blood. For a
night and a day Selitos stood helpless beside Lanre and could do nothing
more than watch and listen to the screams of the dying, the ring of iron, the
crack of breaking stone.

When the next day dawned on the blackened towers of the city, Selitos
found he could move. He turned to Lanre and this time his sight did not fail
him. He saw in Lanre a great darkness and a troubled spirit. But Selitos still
felt the fetters of enchantment binding him. Fury and puzzlement warred
within him, and he spoke. “Lanre, what have you done?”

Lanre continued to look out over the ruins of Myr Tariniel. His shoulders
stooped as though he bore a great weight. There was a weariness in his voice
when he spoke. “Was I accounted a good man, Selitos?”

“You were counted among the best of us. We considered you beyond
reproach.”

“Yet I did this.”

Selitos could not bring himself to look upon his ruined city. “Yet you did
