CHAPTER TWENTY-EIGHT

Tehlu’s Watchful Eye

THE NEXT DAY I came blearily awake to the sound of the hour being
struck. I counted four bells, but didn’t know how many I might have slept
through. I blinked the sleep from my eyes and tried to gauge the time from the
position of the sun. About sixth bell. Skarpi would be starting his story now.

I ran through the streets. My bare feet slapped on rough cobbles, splashing
through puddles and taking shortcuts through alleyways. Everything became a
blur around me as | pulled in great lungfuls of the damp, stagnant, city air.

I almost burst into the Half-Mast at a dead run and settled in against the
back wall by the door. I dimly realized there were more people in the inn than
usual this early in the evening. Then Skarpi’s story pulled me in and I could
do nothing but listen to his deep rolling voice and watch his sparkling eyes.

“,.. Selitos One-Eye stood forward and said, “Lord, if I do this thing will I be
given the power to avenge the loss of the shining city? Can I confound the
plots of Lanre and his Chandrian who killed the innocent and burned my
beloved Myr Tariniel?”

Aleph said, “No. All personal things must be set aside, and you must
punish or reward only what you yourself witness from this day forth.”

Selitos bowed his head. “I am sorry, but my heart says to me I must try to
stop these things before they are done, not wait and punish later.”

Some of the Ruach murmured agreement with Selitos and went to stand
with him, for they remembered Myr Tariniel and were filled with rage and
hurt at Lanre’s betrayal.

Selitos went to Aleph and knelt before him. “I must refuse, for I cannot
forget. But I will oppose him with these faithful Ruach beside me. I see their
hearts are pure. We will be called the Amyr in memory of the ruined city. We
will confound Lanre and any who follow him. Nothing will prevent us from
attaining the greater good.”

Most of the Ruach hung back from Selitos, too. They were afraid, and they
did not wish to become involved in great matters.

But Tehlu stood forward saying, “I hold justice foremost in my heart. I will
leave this world behind that I might better serve it, serving you.” He knelt
