And love of his wife Lyra, at whose calling
Some say he rose, through doors of death
To speak her name as his first reborn breath. ”

My father drew a breath and paused, his mouth open as if he would
continue. Then a wide, wicked grin spread across his face and he bent to tuck
his lute safely away. There was an outcry and a great deal of complaining, but
everyone knew they had been lucky to hear as much as they had. Someone
else struck up a song for dancing, and the protests faded away.

My parents danced together, her head on his chest. Both had their eyes
closed. They seemed so perfectly content. If you can find someone like that,
Someone who you can hold and close your eyes to the world with, then you’re
lucky. Even if it only lasts for a minute or a day. The image of them gently
swaying to the music is how I picture love in my mind even after all these
years.

Afterward, Ben danced with my mother, his steps sure and stately. I was
struck by how beautiful they looked together. Ben, old, grey, and portly, with
his lined face and half-burned eyebrows. My mother, slender, fresh, and
bright, pale and smooth-skinned in the firelight. They complemented each
other by contrast. I ached knowing I might never see them together again.

By this time the sky was beginning to brighten in the east. Everyone
gathered to say their final good-byes.

I can’t remember what I said to him before we left. I know it felt woefully
inadequate, but I knew he understood. He made me promise not to get myself
into any trouble, tinkering with the things he had taught me.

He stooped a bit and gave me a hug, then tousled my hair. I didn’t even
mind. In semiretaliation I tried to smooth out his eyebrows, something I’d
always wanted to try.

His expression was marvelous in its surprise. He gathered me into another
hug. Then he stepped away.

My parents promised to steer the troupe back toward the town when we
were in the area. All the troupers said they wouldn’t need much steering. But,
even as young as | was, I knew the truth. It would be a great long time before
I saw him again. Years.

I don’t remember starting out that morning, but I do remember trying to
Sleep and feeling quite alone except for a dull, bittersweet ache.

When I awoke later in the afternoon I found a package resting next to me.
Wrapped in sackcloth and tied with twine, there was a bright piece of paper
with my name fixed to the top, waving in the wind like a little flag.
Unwrapping it, I recognized the book’s binding. It was Rhetoric and Logic,
the book Ben had used to teach me argument. Out of his small library of a
