were for Tehlu. No one saw me standing in the shadows of the doorway.

It took nearly ten minutes for all of them to pass, only then did I emerge
and begin to make my careful way home. It was slow going, but I felt fortified
by the coin I held. I checked the talent every dozen steps or so to reassure
myself that my numb hand was still gripping it tightly. I wanted to put on the
gloves I had been given, but I feared to drop the coin and lose it in the snow.

I don’t know how long it took for me to get back. The walking warmed me
slightly, though my feet still felt wooden and numb. When I looked back over
my shoulder, my trail was marked by a smear of blood in every other
footprint. It reassured me in an odd way. A foot that bleeds is better than one
that is frozen solid.

I stopped at the first inn I recognized, the Laughing Man. It was full of
music, singing, and celebration. I avoided the front door and went around to
the back alley. There were a pair of young girls chatting in the kitchen
doorway, avoiding their work.

I limped up to them, using the wall as a crutch. They didn’t notice me until
I was nearly on top of them. The younger one looked up at me and gasped.

I took a step closer. “Could one of you bring me food and a blanket? I can
pay.” I held out my hand and was frightened by how much it shook. It was
smeared with blood from when I had touched the side of my face. The inside
of my mouth felt raw. It hurt to talk. “Please?”

They looked at me for a moment in stunned silence. Then they looked at
each other and the older of the two motioned the other inside. The young girl
disappeared through the door without a word.The older girl, who might have
been sixteen, came closer to me and held out her hand.

I gave her the coin and let my arm fall heavily to my side. She looked at it
and disappeared inside after a second long glance at me.

Through the open doorway I heard the warm, bustling sounds of a busy
inn: the low murmur of conversation, punctuated with laughter, the bright
clink of bottle glass, and the dull thump of wooden tankards on tabletops.

And, threading gently through it all, a lute played in the background. It was
faint, almost drowned by the other noise, but I heard it the same way a mother
can mark her child crying from a dozen rooms away. The music was like a
memory of family, of friendship and warm belonging. It made my gut twist
and my teeth ache. For a moment my hands stopped aching from the cold, and
instead longed for the familiar feel of music running through them.

I took a slow, shuffling step. Slowly, sliding along the wall, I moved back
away from the doorway until I couldn’t hear the music anymore.Then I took
another step, until my hands hurt with the cold again and the ache in my chest
came from nothing more than broken ribs. They were simpler pains, easier to
endure.

I don’t know how long it was before the two girls came back. The younger
