one held out a blanket wrapped around something. I hugged it to my aching
chest. It seemed disproportionately heavy for its size, but my arms were
trembling slightly under their own weight, so it was hard to tell. ‘The older girl
held out a small, solid purse. I took it as well, clutching it so tightly my
frostburned fingers ached.

She looked at me. “You can have a corner by the fire in here if you want
it.”

The younger girl nodded quickly. “Nattie won’t mind.” She took a step and
reached out to take my arm.

I jerked away from her, almost falling. “No!” I meant to shout but it came
out aS a weak croak, “Don’t touch me.” My voice was shaking, though I
couldn’t tell if I was angry or afraid. I staggered away against the wall. My
voice was blurry in my ears. “I?ll be fine.”

The younger girl started to cry, her hands hanging useless at her sides.

“I’ve got somewhere to go.” My voice cracked and I turned away. I hurried
off as fast as I could. I wasn’t sure what I was running from, unless it was
people. That was another lesson I had learned perhaps too well: people meant
pain. I heard a few muffled sobs behind me. It seemed a long while before I
made it to the corner.

I made it to my hidden place, where the roofs of two buildings met
underneath the overhang of a third. I don’t know how I managed to climb up
there.

Inside the blanket was a whole flask of spiced wine and a loaf of fresh
bread nestled next to a turkey breast bigger than both my balled fists. I
wrapped myself in the blanket and moved out of the wind as the snow turned
to sleet. The brick of the chimney behind me was warm and wonderful.

The first swallow of wine burned my mouth like fire where it was cut. But
the second didn’t sting nearly so much. The bread was soft and the turkey was
still warm.

I woke at midnight when all the bells in the city started ringing. People ran
and shouted in the streets. The seven days of High Mourning were behind us.
Midwinter was past. A new year had begun.

OceanofPDF.com
