I emerged from an alley and was instantly struck by the difference in
atmosphere between this part of the city and where I had come from.

Waterside, merchants wheedled and cajoled customers, hoping to lure them
into their shops. Should that fail, they were not shy about bursting into fits of
bellicosity: cursing or even openly bullying customers.

Here the shop owners wrung their hands nervously. They bowed and
scraped and were unfailingly polite. Voices were never raised. After the brutal
reality of things Waterside, it seemed to me as if I had stumbled into a formal
ball. Everyone was dressed in new clothes. Everyone was clean, and they all
seemed to be participating in some sort of intricate social dance.

But there were shadows here, too. As I surveyed the street I spotted a pair
of men lurking in the alleyway across from me.Their masks were quite good,
bloodred and fierce. One had a gaping mouth and the other a grimace of
pointed white teeth. They were both wearing the traditional black hooded
robes, which I approved of. So many of the demons Waterside didn’t bother
with the proper costume.

The pair of demons slipped out to follow a well-dressed young couple who
were strolling idly down the street, arm in arm. The demons stalked them
carefully for nearly a hundred feet, then one of them snatched the gentleman’s
hat and thrust it into a nearby snowdrift. The other grabbed the woman in a
rough embrace and lifted her from the ground. She shrieked while the man
struggled with the demon for possession of his walking stick, obviously
flummoxed by the situation.

Luckily his lady maintained her composure. “Tehus! Tehus!” she shouted.
“Tehus antausa eha!”

At the sound of Tehlu’s name the two red-masked figures cowered, then
turned and ran off down the street.

Everyone cheered. One of the shopkeepers helped the gentleman retrieve
his hat. I was rather surprised by the civility of it all. Apparently even the
demons were polite on the good side of town.

Emboldened by what I had seen, I eyed the crowd, looking for my best
prospects. I stepped up to a young woman. She wore a powder blue dress and
had a wrap of white fur. Her hair was long and golden, curled artfully around
her face.

As I stepped forward she looked down at me and stopped. I heard a startled
intake of breath as one hand went to her mouth. “Pennies, ma’am?” I held out
my hand and made it tremble just a little. My voice trembled too. “Please?” I
tried to look every bit as small and hopeless as I felt. I shuffled from foot to
foot in the thin grey snow.

“You poor dear,” she sighed almost too quietly for me to hear. She fumbled
