CHAPTER THIRT Y-ONE

The Nature of Nobility

THE TWO TALENTS HAD a reassuring weight to them that had nothing to
do with how heavy they were. Anyone who has been without money for a
long time will know what I’m talking about. My first investment was a good
leather purse. I wore it underneath my clothes, tight against my skin.

Next was a real breakfast. A plateful of hot eggs and a slice of ham. Bread
that was fresh and soft, plenty of honey and butter on the side, and a glass of
milk not two days from the cow. It cost me five iron pennies. It may be the
best meal I ever ate.

It felt strange sitting at a table, eating with a knife and fork. It felt strange
being around people. It felt strange having a person bring me food.

As I mopped up the remnants of my breakfast with an end of bread, I
realized that I had a problem.

Even in this slightly grubby inn Waterside, I was attracting attention. My
shirt was nothing more than an old burlap sack with holes for my arms and
head. My pants were made out of canvas and too big by several degrees. They
reeked of smoke, grease, and stagnant alley water. I’d been holding them up
with a length of rope I had dug out of some trash. I was filthy, barefoot, and I
stank.

Should I buy clothes or try to find a bath? If I bathed first, I would have to
wear my old clothes afterward. However, if I tried to buy clothes looking the
way I did now, I might not even be let into the store. And I doubted that
anyone would want to measure me for a fit.

The innkeep came to take my plate, and I decided on a bath first, mainly
because I was sick to death of smelling like a week-dead rat. I smiled up at
him. “Where can I find a bath near here?”

“Here, if you have a couple pennies.” He looked me over. “Or I'll work you
an hour instead, a good hard hour. The hearth could use scrubbing.”

“T’ll need a lot of water, and soap.”

“Two hours then, I’ve got dishes too. Hearth first, then bath, then dishes.
Fair?”

An hour or so later my shoulders ached and the hearth was clean. He
showed me to a back room with a large wooden tub and a grate on the floor.
There were pegs along the walls for clothes, and a sheet of tin nailed to the
