CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO

A Time for Demons

I LEARNED MANY THINGS those first months in Tarbean.

I learned which inns and restaurants threw away the best food, and how
rotten food needed to be before it made you sick to eat it.

I learned that the walled complex of buildings near the docks was the
Temple of Tehlu. The Tehlins sometimes gave out bread, making us say
prayers before we could take our loaf. I didn’t mind. It was easier than
begging. Sometimes the grey-robed priests tried to get me to come into the
church to say the prayers, but I’d heard rumors and ran away whenever I was
asked, whether I had my loaf or no.

I learned how to hide. I had a secret place atop an old tannery where three
roofs met, making a shelter from the wind and rain. Ben’s book I secreted
away under the rafters, wrapped in canvas. I handled it only rarely, like a holy
relic. It was the last solid piece of my past, and I took every precaution to
keep it safe.

I learned that Tarbean is vast. You cannot understand if you have not seen it
yourself. It is like the ocean. I can tell you of the waves and water, but you
don’t begin to get an inkling of its size until you stand on the shore. You don’t
really understand the ocean until you are in the midst of it, nothing but ocean
on all sides, stretching away endlessly. Only then do you realize how small
you are, how powerless.

Part of Tarbean’s vastness is the fact that it is divided into a thousand small
pieces, each with its own personality. There was Downings, Drover Court, the
Wash, Middletown, Tallows, Tunning, Dockside, the Tarway, Seamling
Lane.... You could live your whole life in Tarbean and never know all its
parts.

But for most practical purposes Tarbean had two pieces: Waterside and
Hillside. Waterside is where people are poor. That makes them beggars,
thieves, and whores. Hillside is where people are rich. That makes them
solicitors, politicians, and courtesans.

I had been in Tarbean for two months when I first thought to try my hand at
begging Hillside. Winter gripped the city firmly and the Midwinter Pageantry
was making the streets more dangerous than usual.

This was shocking to me. Every winter for the entirety of my young life our
