CHAPTER EIGHTEEN

Roads to Safe Places

PERHAPS THE GREATEST FACULTY our minds possess is the ability to
cope with pain. Classic thinking teaches us of the four doors of the mind,
which everyone moves through according to their need.

First is the door of sleep. Sleep offers us a retreat from the world and all its
pain. Sleep marks passing time, giving us distance from the things that have
hurt us.When a person is wounded they will often fall unconscious. Similarly,
someone who hears traumatic news will often swoon or faint. This is the
mind’s way of protecting itself from pain by stepping through the first door.

Second is the door of forgetting. Some wounds are too deep to heal, or too
deep to heal quickly. In addition, many memories are simply painful, and
there is no healing to be done. The saying “time heals all wounds” is false.
Time heals most wounds. The rest are hidden behind this door.

Third is the door of madness. There are times when the mind is dealt such a
blow it hides itself in insanity. While this may not seem beneficial, it is. There
are times when reality is nothing but pain, and to escape that pain the mind
must leave reality behind.

Last is the door of death. The final resort. Nothing can hurt us after we are
dead, or so we have been told.

After my family was killed, I wandered deep into the forest and slept. My
body demanded it, and my mind used the first door to dull the pain. The
wound was covered until the proper time for healing could come. In self-
defense, a good portion of my mind simply stopped working—went to sleep,
if you will.

While my mind slept, many of the painful parts of the previous day were
ushered through the second door. Not completely. I did not forget what had
happened, but the memory was dulled, as if seen through thick gauze. If I
wanted to, I could have brought to memory the faces of the dead, the
memories of the man with black eyes. But I did not want to remember. I
pushed those thoughts away and let them gather dust in a seldom-used corner
of my mind.

I dreamed, not of blood, glassy eyes, and the smell of burning hair, but of
