my arms and legs roughly. Some feeling was slowly returning to them, mostly
a stinging, prickly heat that was like a painful mockery of the soothing
warmth I had felt a minute ago when I was drifting off to sleep. Pain jabbed at
me each time he went over a bruise, but my body was too tired to flinch away.

The green-masked demon came close and laid a hand on her friend’s
shoulder. “We have to go now, Gerrek! Someone else will take care of him.”
She tried to pull her friend away and met with no success. “If they find us
here with him they’! assume we did it.”

The man behind the black mask swore, then nodded and began to rummage
around undermeath his robe. “Don’t lie down again,” he said to me in urgent
tones. “And get inside. Somewhere you can warm up.” The crowd sounds
were close enough for me to hear individual voices mixed with the noise of
horses’ hooves and creaking wooden wheels. ‘The man in the black mask held
out his hand.

It took me a moment to focus on what he held. A silver talent, thicker and
heavier than the penny I had lost. So much money I could hardly think of it.
“Go on, take it.”

He was a form of darkness, black hooded cloak, black mask, black gloves.
Encanis stood in front of me holding out a bright bit of silver that caught the
moonlight. I was reminded of the scene from Daeonica where Tarsus sells his
soul.

I took the talent, but my hand was so numb I couldn’t feel it. I had to look
down to make sure my fingers were gripping it. I imagined I could feel
warmth radiating up my arm, I felt stronger. I grinned at the man in the black
mask.

“Take my gloves too.” He pulled them off and pushed them against my
chest.Then the woman in the green demon mask pulled my benefactor away
before I could give him any word of thanks. I watched the two of them go.
Their dark robes made them look like pieces of retreating shadow against the
charcoal colors of Tarbean’s moonlit streets.

Not even a minute passed before I saw the pageantry’s torchlight come
around the corner toward me. The voices of a hundred men and women
Singing and shouting crashed over me like waves. I moved away until I felt
my back press up against a wall, then I slid weakly sideways until I found a
recessed doorway.

I watched the pageantry from my vantage there. People poured by, shouting
and laughing. Tehlu stood tall and proud in the back of a wagon drawn by
four white horses. His silver mask gleamed in the torchlight. His white robes
were immaculate and lined with fur at the cuff and collar. Grey-robed priests
followed along beside the wagon, ringing bells and chanting. Many of them
wore the heavy iron chains of penitent priests. The sound of the voices and the
bells, the chanting and the chains mingled to make a sort of music. All eyes
