“Fetch me a robe, lack-wit. I’m sick of being gawked at by you and every
other mewler that decided to go marketing today.” I slouched into a chair and
sulked. When he didn’t move I glared at him. “Did I stutter? Are my needs
perhaps inobvious?” I tugged at the edge of my towel to demonstrate.

He stood there, gaping.

I lowered my voice menacingly, “If you don’t bring me something to wear
—” I stood up and shouted, “—I’I] tear this place apart! I’ll ask my father for
your stones as a Midwinter gift. I’ll have his dogs mount your dead corpse.
DO YOU HAVE ANY IDEA WHO I AM?”

Bently scurried away, and I threw myself back into the chair. A customer I
hadn’t noticed until now made a hurried exit, stopping briefly to curtsy to me
before she left.

I fought back the urge to laugh.

After that it was surprisingly easy. I kept him running about for half an
hour, bringing me one piece of clothing or another. I mocked the material, the
cut, and workmanship of everything he brought out. In short, I was the perfect
little brat.

In truth I couldn’t have been more pleased. The clothing was plain but well
made. Indeed, compared to what I had been wearing an hour before, a clean
burlap sack would have been a great step up.

If you haven’t spent much time in court or in large cities, you won’t
understand why this was so easy for me to accomplish. Let me explain.

Nobles’ sons are one of nature’s great destructive forces, like floods or
tornadoes. When you’re struck with one of these catastrophes, the only thing
an average man can do is grit his teeth and try to minimize the damage.

Bentley knew this. He marked the shirt and pants and helped me out of
them. I got back into the robe he had given me, and he began sewing like the
devil was breathing down his neck.

I flounced back into the chair. “You might as well ask. I can tell you’re
dying of curiosity.”

He looked up briefly from his stitching. “Sir?”

“The circumstances surrounding my current state of undress.”

“Ah, yes.” He tied off the thread and began on the pants. “I will admit to a
Slight curiosity. No more than proper. I’m not one to pry into anyone’s
business.”

“Ah,” I nodded, pretending disappointment. “A laudable attitude.”

There followed a long moment, the only sound was that of the thread being
drawn through cloth. I fidgeted. Finally, I continued as if he had asked me, “A
whore stole my clothes.”

“Really, sir?”

“Yes, she tried to get me to trade them for my purse, the bitch.”

Bentley looked up briefly, genuine curiosity on his face. “Wasn’t your
