CHAPTER TWENTY-THREE

The Burning Wheel

I STAYED TUCKED INTO my secret place all that night and woke late the
next day to find my body had stiffened into a tight knot of pain. Since I still
had food and a little wine I stayed where I was rather than risk falling when I
tried to climb down to the street.

It was a sunless day with a damp wind that never seemed to stop. Sleet
susted under the protection of the overhanging roof. The chimney was warm
behind me, but it wasn’t enough to actually dry out my blanket or drive away
the chilly damp that soaked my clothes.

I finished the wine and the bread early on, and after that I spent most of my
time gnawing at the turkey bones and trying to warm up snow in the empty
wine flask so I could drink it. Neither proved very productive, and I ended up
eating mouthfuls of slushy snow that left me shivering with the taste of tar in
my mouth.

Despite my injuries I dropped off to sleep in the afternoon and woke late at
night filled with the most wonderful warmth. I pushed away my blanket and
rolled away from the now too-hot chimney only to wake near dawn, shivering
and soaked through to the skin. I felt strange, dizzy and fuddled. I huddled
back against the chimney and spent the rest of the day drifting in and out of a
restless, fevered sleep.

I have no memory of how I made it off the rooftop, delirious with fever and
nearly crippled. I don’t remember making my way the three-quarters of a mile
through Tallows and the Crates. I only remember falling down the stairs that
led to Trapis’ basement, my purse of money clutched tight in my hand. As I
lay there shivering and sweating I heard the faint slapping of his bare feet on
the stone.

“What what,” he said gently as he picked me up. “Hush hush.”

Trapis nursed me through the long days of my fever. He wrapped me in
blankets, fed me, and when my fever showed no signs of breaking on its own,
he used the money I’d brought to buy a bittersweet medicine. He kept my face
and hands wet and cool while murmuring his patient, gentle, “What what.
Hush hush,” while I cried out from endless fever dreams of my dead parents,
the Chandrian, and a man with empty eyes.
