had set aside. “Do I have a story?” He spoke very quietly to the child’s wide
eyes. “No. No, I don’t. Can I remember one? I suppose I had better.”

He sat for a long moment, humming to the child in his arms, a thoughtful
expression on his face. “Yes, of course.” He sat up taller in his chair. “Are you
ready?”

This is a story from long ago. Back before any of us were born. Before our
fathers were born, too. It was a long time ago. Maybe—maybe four hundred
years. No, more than that. Probably a thousand years. But maybe not quite as
much as that.

It was a bad time in the world. People were hungry and sick. There were
famines and great plagues. There were many wars and other bad things in this
time, because there was no one to stop them.

But the worst thing in this time was that there were demons walking the
land. Some of them were small and troublesome, creatures who lamed horses
and spoiled milk. But there were many worse than those.

There were demons who hid in men’s bodies and made them sick or mad,
but those were not the worst. There were demons like great beasts that would
catch and eat men while they were still alive and screaming, but they were not
the worst. Some demons stole the skins of men and wore them like clothes,
but even they were not the worst.

There was one demon that stood above the others. Encanis, the swallowing
darkness. No matter where he walked, shadows hid his face, and scorpions
that stung him died of the corruption they had touched.

Now Tehlu, who made the world and who is lord over all, watched the
world of men. He saw that demons made sport of us and killed us and ate our
bodies. Some men he saved, but only a few. For Tehlu is just and saves only
the worthy, and in these times few men acted even for their own good, let
alone the good of others.

Because of this, Tehlu was unhappy. For he had made the world to be a
good place for men to live. But his church was corrupt. They stole from the
poor and did not live by the laws he had given... .

No, wait. There was no church yet, and no priests either. Just men and
women, and some of them knew who Tehlu was. But even those were wicked,
so when they called on Lord Tehlu for help he felt no desire to aid them.

But after years of watching and waiting, Tehlu saw a woman pure of heart
and spirit. Her name was Perial. Her mother had raised her to know Tehlu,
and she worshiped him as well as her poor circumstances allowed. Although
her own life was hard, Perial prayed only for others, and never for herself.

Tehlu watched her for long years. He saw her life was hard, full of
misfortune and torment at the hands of demons and bad men. But she never
