well at midnight.

Cinder glanced briefly at the shadowed man, then turned away. “You are as
good as a watcher, Haliax,” he snapped.

“And you seem to forget our purpose,” the dark man said, his cool voice
sharpening. “Or does your purpose simply differ from my own?” The last
words were spoken carefully, as if they held special significance.

Cinder’s arrogance left him in a second, like water poured from a bucket.
“No,” he said, turning back toward the fire. “No, certainly not.”

“That is good. I hate to think of our long acquaintance coming to an end.”

“As do I.”

“Refresh me again as to our relationship, Cinder,” the shadowed man said,
a deep sliver of anger running through his patient tone.

“T...Iam in your service. .. .” Cinder made a placating gesture.

“You are a tool in my hand,” the shadowed man interrupted gently.
“Nothing more. ”

A hint of defiance touched Cinder’s expression. He paused. “I wo—”

The soft voice went as hard as a rod of Ramston steel. “Ferula.”

Cinder’s quicksilver grace disappeared. He staggered, his body suddenly
rigid with pain.

“You are a tool in my hand,” the cool voice repeated. “Say it.”

Cinder’s jaw clenched angrily for a moment, then he convulsed and cried
out, sounding more like a wounded animal than a man. “I am a tool in your
hand,” he gasped.

“Lord Haliax.”

“T am a tool in your hand, Lord Haliax,” Cinder amended as he crumpled,
trembling, to his knees.

“Who knows the inner turnings of your name, Cinder?” The words were
spoken with a slow patience, like a schoolmaster reciting a forgotten lesson.

Cinder wrapped shaking arms around his midsection and hunched over,
closing his eyes. “You, Lord Haliax.”

“Who keeps you safe from the Amyr? The singers? The Sithe? From all that
would harm you in the world?” Haliax asked with calm politeness, as if
genuinely curious as to what the answer might be.

“You, Lord Haliax.” Cinder’s voice was a quiet shred of pain.

“And whose purpose do you serve?”

“Your purpose, Lord Haliax.” The words were choked out. “Yours. None
other.” The tension left the air and Cinder’s body suddenly went slack. He fell
forward onto his hands and beads of sweat fell from his face to patter on the
sround like rain. His white hair hung limp around his face. “Thank you, lord,”
he gasped out earnestly. “I will not forget again.”

“You will.You are too fond of your little cruelties. All of you.” Haliax’s
hooded face swept back and forth to look at each of the figures sitting around
