CHAPTER TWENTY

Bloody Hands Into Stinging Fists

IT WAS AROUND NOON when the wagon turned onto a new road, this one
wide as a river and paved with cobbles. At first there were only a handful of
travelers and a wagon or two, but to me it seemed like a great crowd after
such a long time alone.

We went deeper into the city, and low buildings gave way to taller shops
and inns. Trees and gardens were replaced by alleys and cart vendors. The
sreat river of a road grew clogged and choked with the flotsam of a hundred
carts and pedestrians, dozens of wains and wagons and the occasional
mounted man.

There was the sound of horses’ hooves and people shouting, the smell of
beer and sweat and garbage and tar. I wondered which city this was, and if I’d
been here before, before—

I gritted my teeth and forced myself to think of other things.

“Almost there,” Seth raised his voice above the din. Eventually the road
Opened out into a market. Wagons rolled on the cobbles with a sound like
distant thunder. Voices bargained and fought. Somewhere in the distance a
child was crying shrill and high. We rode aimlessly for a while until he found
an empty comer in front of a bookshop.

Seth stopped the wagon and I hopped out as they were stretching away the
kinks from the road. Then, with a sort of silent agreement, I helped them
unload the lumpy sacks from the back of the wagon and pile them to one side.

A half an hour later we were resting among the piled sacks. Seth looked at
me, shading his eyes with a hand. “What are ye doin’ in town today, boy?”

“T need lute strings,” I said. Only then did I realize I didn’t know where my
father’s lute was. I looked around wildly. It wasn’t in the wagon where I’d left
it, or leaning against the wall, or on the piles of squash. My stomach clenched
until I spotted it underneath some loose burlap sacking. I walked over to it
and picked it up with shaking hands.

The older farmer grinned at me and held out a pair of the knobby squash
we’d been unloading. “How would your mother like it if you brought home a
couple of the finest orange butter squash this side of the Eld?”

“No, I can’t,” I stammered, pushing away a memory of raw fingers digging
in the mud and the smell of burning hair. “I m—mean, you’ve already .. .” I
