looked old and tired. After a moment he asked, “Why do you stop when you
find one?”

“We just always do. It’s a break from the road.” I thought for a moment. “I
think they’re supposed to be good luck.” I wished I had more to say to keep
the conversation going, his interest piqued, but I couldn’t think of anything
else.

“T suppose they could be at that.” Ben guided Alpha and Beta into a spot on
the far side of the stone, away from most of the other wagons. “Come back
for dinner or soon afterward. We need to talk.” He turned without looking at
me and began to unhitch Alpha from the wagon.

I’d never seen Ben in a mood like this before. Worried that I’d ruined
things between us, I turned and ran to my parents’ wagon.

I found my mother sitting in front of a fresh fire, slowly adding twigs to
build it up. My father sat behind her, rubbing her neck and shoulders. They
both looked up at the sound of my feet running toward them.

“Can I eat with Ben tonight?”

My mother looked up at my father, then back to me. “You shouldn’t make
yourself a nuisance, dear.”

“He invited. If I go now, I can help him set up for the night.”

She wiggled her shoulders, and my father started rubbing them again. She
smiled at me. “Fair enough, but don’t keep him up until the wee hours.” She
smiled at me. “Give me a kiss.” She held out her arms and I gave her a hug
and a kiss.

My father gave me a kiss too. “Let me have your shirt. It’ll give me
something to do while your mother fixes dinner.” He skinned me out of it and
fingered the torn edges. “This shirt is wholly holey, more than it has any right
to be.”

I started to stammer out an explanation but he waved it aside. “I know, I
know, it was all for the greater good. Try to be more careful, or I’l] make you
sew it yourself.There’s a fresh one in your trunk. Bring me needle and thread
while you’re in there, if you’d be so kind.”

I made a dash into the back of the wagon and drew on a fresh shirt. While I
rummaged around for needle and thread I heard my mother singing:

“In evening when the sun is setting fast,
I?ll watch for you from high above

The time for your return is long since past
But mine is ever-faithful love. ”

My father answered:

“In evening when the light is dying
My feet at last are homeward turning
The wind is through the willows sighing
