the mug when I saw a flicker of torchlight approaching. Looking down the
street, I saw the distinctive grey of a Tehlin priest and decided to wait until he
had passed. Drunk on Mourning and just recently a thief, I guessed the less
contact I had with the clergy the better off I’d be.

He was hooded, and the torch he carried was between us, so I couldn’t see
his face. He approached the group of nearby women and there was a low
murmur of discussion. I heard the distinctive chink of coins and sunk further
into the shadow of the doorway.

The Tehlin turned and headed back the way he had come. I remained still,
not wanting to draw his attention, not wanting to have to run for safety while
my head was spinning. This time, however, the torch was not between us.
When he turned to look in my direction, I could see nothing of his face, only
darkness under the cowl of his hood, only shadow.

He continued on his way, unaware of my presence, or uncaring. But I
stayed where I was, unable to move. The image of the hooded man, his face
hidden in shadow, had thrown open a door in my mind and memories were
spilling out. I was remembering a man with empty eyes and a smile from a
nightmare, remembering the blood on his sword. Cinder, his voice like a chill
wind: “Is this your parent’s fire?”

Not him, the man behind him. The quiet one who had sat beside the fire.
The man whose face was hidden in shadow. Haliax. This had been the half-
remembered thing hovering on the edge of my awareness since I had heard
Skarpi’s story.

I ran to the rooftops and wrapped myself in my rag blanket. Pieces of story
and memory slowly fit together. I began to admit impossible truths to myself.
The Chandrian were real. Haliax was real. If the story Skarpi had told was
true, then Lanre and Haliax were the same person. The Chandrian had killed
my parents, my whole troupe. Why?

Other memories bubbled to the surface of my mind. I saw the man with
black eyes, Cinder, kneeling in front of me. His face expressionless, his voice
sharp and cold. “Someone’s parents,” he had said, “have been singing entirely
the wrong sort of songs.”

They had killed my parents for gathering stories about them. They had
killed my whole troupe over a song. I sat awake all night with little more than
these thoughts running through my head. Slowly I came to realize them as the
truth.

What did I do then? Did I swear I would find them, kill them all for what
they had done? Perhaps. But even if I did, I knew in my heart it was
impossible. Tarbean had taught me hard practicality. Kill the Chandrian? Kill
Lanre? How could I even begin? I would have more luck trying to steal the
moon. At least I knew where to look for the moon at night.

But there was one thing I could do. Tomorrow I would ask Skarpi for the
