flesh. I must refuse.” The Justice’s voice dripped pious regret.

I managed to catch Skarpi’s eye, he gave me a little half-smile. My stomach
churned. The old storyteller didn’t seem to have any idea what sort of trouble
he was in. But at the same time, deep inside me, something selfish was
saying, if you’d come earlier and found out what you needed to know, it
wouldn't be so bad now, would it?

The barman broke the silence. “Could you take the price of the barrel then,
sirs? If not the barrel itself.”

The Justice paused, as if thinking.

“For the sake of the children,” the bald man pleaded. “I know you will use
the money for them.”

The Justice pursed his lips. “Very well,” he said after a moment, “for the
sake of the children.”

The shorter priest’s voice had an unpleasant edge. “The children.”

The owner managed a weak smile.

Skarpi rolled his eyes at me and winked.

“You would think,” Skarpi’s voice rolled out like thick honey, “fine
churchmen such as yourselves could find better things to do than arresting
storytellers and extorting money from honest men.”

The clinking of the barman’s coins trailed off and the room seemed to hold
its breath. With a studied casualness, the Justice turned his back toward
Skarpi and spoke over one shoulder toward the shorter priest. “Anthony, we
seem to have found a courteous heretic, how strange and wonderful! We
Should sell him to a Ruh troupe; in a way he resembles a talking dog.”

Skarpi spoke to the man’s back. “It’s not as if I expect you to bound off
looking for Haliax and the Seven yourself. ‘Small deeds for small men,’ I
always say. I imagine the trouble is in finding the job small enough for men
such as yourselves. But you are resourceful. You could pick trash, or check
brothel beds for lice when you are visiting.”

Turning, the Justice snatched the clay cup off the bar and dashed it against
Skarpi’s head, shattering it. “Do not speak in my presence!” he crackled.
“You know nothing!”

Skarpi shook his head a little, as if to clear it. A trickle of red lined its way
down his driftwood face, down into one of his sea-foam eyebrows. “I suppose
that could be true. Tehlu always said—”

“Do not speak his name!” the Justice screamed, his face a livid red. “Your
mouth dirties it. It is a blasphemy upon your tongue.”

“Oh come now, Erlus.” Skarpi chided as though talking to a small child.
“Tehlu hates you even more than the rest of the world does, which is quite a
bit.”

The room became unnaturally still. The Justice’s face grew pale. “God have
mercy on you,” he said in a cold, trembling voice.
