perhaps you will understand why, when the crowd in front of me happened to
part for a moment, I saw what I was looking for. A member of the guard. I
ducked through the nearest door, my heart pounding.

I spent a moment reminding myself that I wasn’t the same filthy little
urchin who’d been beaten years ago. I was well-dressed and clean. I looked
like I belonged here. But old habits die slow deaths. I fought to control a deep
red anger, but couldn’t tell if I was angry at myself, the guard, or the world in
general. Probably a little of each.

“Be right with you,” came a cheerful voice from a curtained doorway.

I looked around the shop. Light from the front window fell across a
crowded workbench and dozens of shelved pairs of shoes. I decided I could
have picked a worse store to wander into.

“Let me guess—” came the voice again from the back. A grandfather-grey
man emerged from behind the curtain carrying a long piece of leather. He was
short and stooped, but his face smiled at me through his wrinkles. “—you
need shoes.” He smiled timidly, as if the joke was a pair of old boots that had
worn out long ago, but were too comfortable to give up. He looked down at
my feet. I looked too, in spite of myself.

I was barefoot of course. I hadn’t had shoes for so long that I never even
thought about them anymore. At least not during the summer. In the winter, I
dreamed of shoes.

I looked up. The old man’s eyes were dancing, as if he couldn’t decide
whether laughing would cost him his customer or not. “I guess I need shoes,”
I admitted.

He laughed and guided me into a seat, measuring my bare feet with his
hands. Thankfully the streets were dry, so my feet were merely dusty from the
cobblestones. If there had been rain they would have been embarrassingly
filthy.

“Let’s see what you like, and if I have anything of a size for you. If not, I
can make or change a pair to fit you in an hour or two. So, what would you be
wanting shoes for? Walking? Dancing? Riding?” He leaned back on his stool
and grabbed a pair off a shelf behind him.

“Walking.”

“Thought so.” He deftly rolled a pair of stockings onto my feet, as if all his
customers came in barefoot. He tucked my feet into a pair of something black
with buckles. “How’s those feel? Put a little weight on to make sure.”

“T__»

“They’re tight. I thought so. Nothing more annoying that a shoe that
pinches.” He stripped me out of them, and into another pair, quick as a whip.
“How about these?” They were a deep purple and made of velvet or felt.

“They—”

“Not quite what you’re looking for? Don’t blame you really, wear out
