sentler things. And slowly the wound began to grow numb. ...

I dreamed I was walking through the forest with plain-faced Laclith, the
woodsman who had traveled with our troupe when I was younger. He walked
Silently through the underbrush while I kicked up more noise than a wounded
ox dragging an overturned cart.

After a long period of comfortable silence I stopped to look at a plant. He
came quietly up behind me. “Sagebeard,” he said. “You can tell by the edge.”
He reached past me and gently stroked the appropriate part of the leaf. It did
look like a beard. I nodded.

“This is willow. You can chew the bark to lessen pains.” It was bitter and
Slightly gritty. “This is itchroot, don’t touch the leaves.” I didn’t. “This is
baneberry, the small fruits are safe to eat when red but never when shading
from green to yellow to orange.

“This is how you set your feet when you want to walk silently.” It made my
calves ache. “This is how you part the brush quietly, leaving no sign of your
passing. This is where you find the dry wood. This is how you keep the rain
off when you don’t have canvas. This is paterroot. You can eat it but it tastes
bad. These,” he gestured, “straightrod, orangestripe, never eat them.The one
with little knobs on it is burrum. You should only eat it if you have just eaten
something like straightrod. It will make you keck up whatever’s in your
stomach.

“This is how you set a snare that won’t kill a rabbit. This snare will.” He
looped the string first one way, then another.

As I watched his hands manipulate the string I realized it was no longer
Laclith, but Abenthy. We were riding in the wagon and he was teaching me
how to tie sailors’ knots.

“Knots are interesting things,” Ben said as he worked. “The knot will either
be the strongest or the weakest part of the rope. It depends entirely on how
well one makes the binding.” He held up his hands, showing me an
impossibly complex pattern spread between his fingers.

His eyes glittered. “Any questions?”

“Any questions?” my father said. We had stopped early for the day because
of a greystone. He sat tuning his lute and was finally going to play his song
for my mother and me. We had been waiting so long. “Are there any
questions?” he repeated, as he sat with his back against the great grey stone.

“Why do we stop at the waystones?”

“Tradition mostly. But some people say they marked old roads—” My
father’s voice changed and became Ben’s voice, “—safe roads. Sometimes
roads to safe places, sometimes safe roads leading into danger.” Ben held one
hand out to it, as if feeling the warmth of a fire. “But there is a power in them.
