that you shall have no peace.

“This is my doom upon you and all who follow you. May it last until the
world ends and the Aleu fall nameless from the sky.”

Selitos watched as a darkness gathered about Lanre. Soon nothing could be
seen of his handsome features, only a vague impression of nose and mouth
and eyes. All the rest was shadow, black and seamless.

Then Selitos stood and said, “You have beaten me once through guile, but
never again. Now I see truer than before and my power is upon me. I cannot
kill you, but I can send you from this place. Begone! The sight of you is all
the fouler, knowing that you once were fair.”

But even as he spoke them, the words were bitter in his mouth. Lanre, his
face in shadow darker than a starless night, was blown away like smoke upon
the wind.

Then Selitos bowed his head and wept hot tears of blood upon the earth.

It wasn’t until Skarpi stopped speaking that I noticed how lost in the story I
had become. He tilted his head back and drained the last of the wine from his
wide clay cup. He turned it upside-down and set it on the bar with a dull
thump of finality.

There was a small clamor of questions, comments, pleas, and thanks from
children who had remained still as stones throughout the story. Skarpi made a
small gesture to the barkeep who set out a mug of beer as the children began
to trickle out onto the street.

I waited until the last of them had left before I approached him. He turned
those diamond-blue eyes on me and I stammered.

“Thank you. I wanted to thank you. My father would have loved that story.
It’s the .. .” I broke off. “I wanted to give you this.” I brought out an iron
halfpenny. “I didn’t know what was going on, so I didn’t pay.” My voice
seemed rusty. This was probably more than I had spoken in a month.

He looked closely at me. “Here are the rules,” he said, ticking them off on
his gnarled fingers. “One: don’t talk while I’m talking. Two: give a small
coin, if you have it to spare.”

He looked at the ha’penny on the bar.

Not wanting to admit how much I needed it, I sought for something else to
say. “Do you know many stories?”

He smiled, and the network of lines that crossed his face turned to make
themselves part of that smile. “I only know one story. But oftentimes small
pieces seem to be stories themselves.” He took a drink. “It’s growing all
around us. In the manor houses of the Cealdim and in the workshops of the
Cealdar, over the Stormwal in the great sand sea. In the low stone houses of
the Adem, full of silent conversation. And sometimes.” He _ smiled.
