troupe had organized the Midwinter Pageantry for some town. Dressed in
demon masks, we would terrorize them for the seven days of High Mourning,
much to everyone’s delight. My father played an Encanis so convincing you’d
think we’d conjured him. Most importantly, he could be frightening and
careful at the same time. No one was ever hurt when our troupe was in
charge.

But in Tarbean it was different. Oh, the pieces of the pageantry were all the
same. There were still men in garishly painted demon masks skulking about
the city, making mischief. Encanis was out there too, in the traditional black
mask, making more serious trouble. And though I hadn’t seen him, I didn’t
doubt that silver-masked Tehlu was striding around the better neighborhoods,
playing his part. As I said, the pieces of the pageantry were the same.

But they played out differently. For one thing,Tarbean was too big for one
troupe to provide enough demons. A hundred troupes wouldn’t be enough.
So, rather than pay for professionals, as would be sensible and safe, the
churches in Tarbean took the more profitable path of selling demon masks.

Because of this, on the first day of High Mourning ten thousand demons
were set loose on the city. Ten thousand amateur demons, with license to
make whatever mischief they had minds to.

This might seem like an ideal situation for a young thief to take advantage
of, but really the opposite was true. The demons were always thickest
Waterside. And while the great majority behaved properly, fleeing at the
sound of Tehlu’s name and keeping their devilry within reasonable bounds,
many did not. Things were dangerous the first few days of High Mourning,
and I spent most of my time simply staying out of harm’s way.

But as Midwinter approached, things settled down. The number of demons
steadily decreased as people lost their masks or tired of the game. Tehlu no
doubt eliminated his share as well, but silver mask or no, he was only one
man. He could hardly cover the whole of Tarbean in just seven days’ time.

I chose the last day of Mourning for my trip Hillside. Spirits are always
high on Midwinter’s Day, and high spirits mean good begging. Best of all, the
ranks of the demons were noticeably thinned, which meant it was reasonably
safe to be walking the streets again.

I set out in the early afternoon, hungry because I couldn’t find any bread to
steal. I remember feeling vaguely excited as I headed toward Hillside. Maybe
some part of me remembered what Midwinter had been like with my family:
warm meals and warm beds afterward. Maybe I had been infected by the
smell of evergreen boughs being gathered into piles and set ablaze in
celebration of Tehlu’s triumph.

That day I learned two things. I learned why beggars stay Waterside, and I
learned that no matter what the church might tell you, Midwinter is a time for
demons.
