there, untouched. I balled my bloody hands into stinging fists.

“These knob things still seem okay. They’re silvery, I’ll bet we can get
something for them.”

Pike pulled back his foot again. I tried to put up my hands to keep it away,
but my arms just twitched and Pike kicked me in the stomach.

“Grab that bit over there... .”

“Pike. Pike!”

Pike kicked me in the stomach again and I vomited weakly onto the
cobblestones.

“You there, stop! City Watch!” A new voice shouted. A heartbeat of
stillness was followed by a scuffle and a flurry of pattering feet. A second
later, heavy boots pounded past and faded in the distance.

I remember the ache in my chest. I blacked out.

I was shaken out of darkness by someone turning my pockets inside out. I
tried unsuccessfully to open my eyes.

I heard a voice muttering to itself, “Is this all I get for saving your life?
Copper and a couple shims? Drinks for an evening? Worthless little sod.” He
coughed deep in his chest and the smell of stale liquor washed over me.
“Screaming like that. If you hadn’t sounded like a girl I wouldn’t have run all
this way.”

I tried to say something, but it dribbled out as a groan.

“Well, you’re alive. That’s something, I suppose.” I heard a grunt as he
stood up, then the heavy thumping of his boots faded away into silence.

After a while I found I could open my eyes. My vision was blurry and my
nose felt larger than the rest of my head. I prodded it delicately. Broken.
Remembering what Ben had taught me, I put one hand on each side of it and
twisted it sharply back into place. I clenched my teeth against a cry of pain,
and my eyes filled with tears.

I blinked them away and was relieved when I saw the street without the
painful blurriness of a moment ago. The contents of my small sack lay next to
me on the ground: a half ball of string, a small dull knife, Rhetoric and Logic,
and the remainder of a piece of bread the farmer had given me for lunch. It
seemed like forever ago.

The farmer. I thought of Seth and Jake. Soft bread and butter. Songs while
riding in a wagon. Their offer of a safe place, anew home....

A sudden memory was followed by a sudden sickening panic. I looked
around the alley, my head aching from the sudden movement. Sifting the
garbage with my hands I found some terribly familiar shards of wood. I stared
at them mutely as the world darkened imperceptibly around me. I darted a
look at the thin strip of sky visible overhead and saw it was purpling into
