“Still some left,” he called through a mouthful of bread. “Better hurrup
though.”

My common sense did a rapid turnaround, and I headed cautiously
downward. At the bottom of the steps were a few rotting planks, all that
remained of a broken door. Inside I could see a short hallway opening out into
a dimly lit room. A young girl with hard eyes pushed past me without looking
up. She clutched another piece of bread.

I stepped over the broken pieces of door into the chill, damp dark. After a
dozen steps I heard a low moan that froze me where I stood. It was almost an
animal sound, but my ear told me it came from a human throat.

I don’t know what I expected, but it was nothing like what I found. Two
ancient lamps burned fish oil, throwing dim shadows against the dark stone
walls. There were six cots in the room, all occupied. Two children that were
hardly more than babies shared a blanket on the stone floor, and another was
curled up in a pile of rags. A boy my age sat in a dark corner, his head pressed
against the wall.

One of the boys moved slightly on his cot, as if stirring in his sleep. But
something was wrong with the movement. It was too strained, too tense. |
looked closer and saw the truth. He was tied to the cot. All of them were.

He strained against the ropes and made the noise [| had heard in the hall. It
was Clearer now, a long moaning cry. “Aaaaaaabaaaaaaah.”

For a moment all I could do was think about every story I had ever heard
about the Duke of Gibea. About how he and his men had abducted and
tortured people for twenty years before the church had gone in and put an end
to it.

“What what,” came a voice from the other room. The voice had an odd
inflection to it, as if it wasn’t really asking a question.

The boy on the cot jerked against his ropes. “Aaaahbeeeeh.”

A man came through the doorway brushing his hands on the front of his
tattered robe. “What what,” he repeated in the same not-questioning tone. His
voice was old and tired around the edges, but at its center it was patient.
Patient as a heavy stone or a mother cat with kittens. Not the sort of voice I
expected a Duke-of-Gibea type to have.

“What what. Hush hush, Tanee. I wan’t gone, just stepped away. Now I’m
here.” His feet made slapping sounds against the bare stone floor. He was
barefoot. I felt the tension slowly spill out of me. Whatever was going on
here, it didn’t seem nearly as sinister as I had originally thought.

The boy stopped straining against the ropes when he saw the man
approaching. “Eeeeeeaah.” He said, and tugged against the ropes restraining
him.

“What?” It was a question this time.

“Eeeeeeaah.”
