I followed him carefully for the better part of a day, keeping my distance
and staying in the shadows. Eventually he went home to a little box alley
Dockside where he had his own version of my secret place. His was a nest of
broken crates he had cobbled together to keep the weather off.

I perched on the roof all night, waiting until he left the next morning. Then
I made my way down to his nest of crates and looked around. It was cozy,
filled with the accumulated small possessions of several years. He had a bottle
of beer, which I drank. There was also half a cheese that I ate, and a shirt that
I stole, as it was slightly less raggedy than my own.

Further searching revealed various odds and ends, a candle, a ball of string,
some marbles. Most surprising were several pieces of sailcloth with charcoal
drawings of a woman’s face. I had to search for nearly ten minutes until I
found what I was really looking for. Hidden away behind everything else was
a small wooden box that showed signs of much handling. It held a bundle of
dried violets tied with a white ribbon, a toy horse that had lost most of its
string mane, and a lock of curling blond hair.

It took me several minutes with flint and steel to get the fire going. The
violets were good tinder and soon greasy clouds of smoke were billowing
high into the air. I stood by and watched as everything Pike loved went up in
flames.

But I stayed too long, savoring the moment. Pike and a friend came running
down the box alley, drawn by the smoke, and I was trapped. Furious, Pike
jumped me. He was taller by six inches and outweighed me by fifty pounds.
Worse, he had a piece of broken glass wrapped with twine at one end, making
a crude knife.

He stabbed me once in the thigh right above my knee before I smashed his
hand into the cobblestones, shattering the knife. After that he still gave me a
black eye and several broken ribs before I managed to kick him squarely
between the legs and get free. As I pelted away he limped after me, shouting
that he would kill me for what I’d done.

I believed him. After patching up my leg, I took every bit of rainy-day
money I had saved and bought five pints of dreg, a cheap, foul liquor strong
enough to blister the inside of your mouth. Then I limped into Dockside and
waited for Pike and his friends to spot me.

It didn’t take long, I let him and two of his friends follow me for half a
mile, past Seamling Lane and into Tallows. I kept to the main roads, knowing
they wouldn’t dare attack me in broad daylight when people were around.

But when I darted into a side alley, they hurried to catch up, suspecting I
was trying to make a run for it. However, when they turned the corner no one
was there.

Pike thought to look up just as I was pouring the bucket of dreg onto him
from the edge of the low roof above. It doused him, splashing across his face
