he told would be over as well.

Skarpi took another drink, no more than a sip this time, then set his cup
down and pivoted on his stool to face us. “Who would like to hear the story of
a man who lost his eye and gained a better sight?”

Something about the tone of his voice or the reaction of the other children
told me this was a purely rhetorical question. “So, Lanre and the Creation
War. An old, old story.” His eyes swept over the children. “Sit and listen for I
will speak of the shining city as it once was, years and miles away... .”

Once, years and miles away, there was Myr Tariniel. The shining city. It sat
among the tall mountains of the world like a gem on the crown of a king.

Imagine a city as large as Tarbean, but on every corner of every street there
was a bright fountain, or a green tree growing, or a statue so beautiful it
would make a proud man cry to look at it. The buildings were tall and
sraceful, carved from the mountain itself, carved of a bright white stone that
held the sun’s light long after evening fell.

Selitos was lord over Myr Tariniel. Just by looking at a thing Selitos could
see its hidden name and understand it. In those days there were many who
could do such things, but Selitos was the most powerful namer of anyone
alive in that age.

Selitos was well loved by the people he protected. His judgments were
Strict and fair, and none could sway him through falsehood or dissembling.
Such was the power of his sight that he could read the hearts of men like
heavy-lettered books.

Now in those days there was a terrible war being fought across a vast
empire. The war was called the Creation War, and the empire was called
Ergen. And despite the fact that the world has never seen an empire as grand
or a war So terrible, both of them only live in stories now. Even history books
that mentioned them as doubtful rumor have long since crumbled into dust.

The war had lasted so long that folk could hardly remember a time when
the sky wasn’t dark with the smoke of burning towns. Once there had been
hundreds of proud cities scattered through the empire. Now there were merely
ruins littered with the bodies of the dead. Famine and plague were
everywhere, and in some places there was such despair that mothers could no
longer muster enough hope to give their children names. But eight cities
remained. They were Belen, Antus, Vaeret, Tinusa, Emlen, and the twin cities
of Murilla and Murella. Last was Myr Tariniel, greatest of them all and the
only one unscarred by the long centuries of war. It was protected by the
mountains and brave soldiers. But the true cause of Myr Tariniel’s peace was
Selitos. Using the power of his sight he kept watch over the mountain passes
leading to his beloved city. His rooms were in the city’s highest towers so he
