the fire. They stirred uncomfortably. “I am glad I decided to accompany you
today. You are straying, indulging in whimsy. Some of you seem to have
forgotten what it is we seek, what we wish to achieve.” The others sitting
around the fire stirred uneasily.

The hood turned back to Cinder. “But you have my forgiveness. Perhaps if
not for these remindings, it would be I who would forget.” There was an edge
to the last of his words. “Now, finish what—” His cool voice trailed away as
his shadowed hood slowly tilted to look toward the sky. There was an
expectant silence.

Those sitting around the fire grew perfectly still, their expressions intent. In
unison they tilted their heads as if looking at the same point in the twilit sky.
As if trying to catch the scent of something on the wind.

A feeling of being watched pulled at my attention. I felt a tenseness, a
subtle change in the texture of the air. I focused on it, glad for the distraction,
glad for anything that might keep me from thinking clearly for just a few
more seconds.

“They come,” Haliax said quietly. He stood, and shadow seemed to boil
outward from him like a dark fog. “Quickly.To me.”

The others rose from their seats around the fire. Cinder scrambled to his
feet and staggered a half dozen steps toward the fire.

Haliax spread his arms and the shadow surrounding him bloomed like a
flower unfolding. Then, each of the others turned with a studied ease and took
a step toward Haliax, into the shadow surrounding him. But as their feet came
down they slowed, and gently, as if they were made of sand with wind
blowing across them, they faded away. Only Cinder looked back, a hint of
anger in his nightmare eyes.

Then they were gone.

I will not burden you with what followed. How I ran from body to body,
frantially feeling for the signs of life as Ben had taught me. My futile attempt
at digging a grave. How I scrabbled in the dirt until my fingers were bloody
and raw. How I found my parents... .

It was in the darkest hours of the night when I found our wagon. Our horse
had dragged it nearly a hundred yards down the road before he died. It
seemed so normal inside, so tidy and calm. I was struck by how much the
back of the wagon smelled like the two of them.

I lit every lamp and candle in the wagon. The light was no comfort, but it
was the honest gold of real fire, untinged with blue. I took down my father’s
lute case. I lay in my parent’s bed with the lute beside me. My mother’s
pillow smelled of her hair, of an embrace. I did not mean to sleep, but sleep
took me.
