with the purse at her side, either unable or unwilling to take her eyes from me.
After a moment she looked inside her purse and brought something out. As
she curled my fingers around it I felt the cold, reassuring weight of a coin.

“Thank you, ma’am,” I said automatically, I looked down for a moment
and saw silver glinting through my fingers. I opened my hand and saw a silver
penny. A whole silver penny.

I gaped. A silver penny was worth ten copper pennies, or fifty iron ones.
More than that, it was worth a full belly every night for half a month. For an
iron penny I could sleep on the floor at the Red Eye for the night, for two I
could sleep on the hearth by the embers of the evening fire. I could buy a rag
blanket that I would hide on the rooftops, keeping me warm all winter.

I looked up at the woman, who was still looking down at me with pitying
eyes. She couldn’t know what this meant. “Lady, thank you,” my voice
cracked. I remembered one of the things that we said back when I lived in the
troupe. “May all your stories be glad ones, and your roads be smooth and
short.”

She smiled at me and might have said something, but I got a strange feeling
near the base of my neck. Someone was watching me. On the street you either
develop a sensitivity to certain things, or your life is miserable and short.

I looked around and saw a shopkeeper talking with a guard and gesturing in
my direction. This wasn’t some Waterside guard. He was clean-shaven and
upright. He wore a black leather jerkin with metal studs and carried a brass-
bound club as long as his arm. I caught scraps of what the shopkeeper was
saying.

“... customers. Who’s going to buy chocolate with .. .” He gestured my
way again and said something I couldn’t catch. “. . . pays you? That’s right.
Maybe I should mention. . .”

The guard turned his head to look in my direction. I caught his eyes. I
turned and ran.

I headed for the first alley I saw, my thin shoes slipping on the light layer of
snow that covered the ground. I heard his heavy boots pounding behind me as
I turned into a second alley branching off from the first.

My breath was burning in my chest as I looked for somewhere to go,
somewhere to hide. But I didn’t know this part of the city. There were no piles
of trash to worm into, no burned-out buildings to climb through. I felt sharp
frozen gravel slice through the thin sole of one of my shoes. Pain tore through
my foot as I forced myself to keep running.

I ran into a dead end after my third turning. I was halfway up one of the
walls when I felt a hand close around my ankle and pull me to the ground.

My head hit the cobblestones and the world spun dizzily as the guard lifted
me off the ground, holding me by one wrist and my hair. “Clever boy, aren’t
you?” he panted, his breath hot on my face. He smelled like leather and sweat.
