CHAPTER TWENTY-FIVE

Interlude—Eager for Reasons

KVOTHE GESTURED FOR CHRONICLER to set down his pen and
stretched, lacing his fingers together above his head. “It’s been a long time
since I remembered that,” he said. “If you are eager to find the reason I
became the Kvothe they tell stories about, you could look there, I suppose.”

Chronicler’s forehead wrinkled. “What do you mean, exactly?”

Kvothe paused for a long moment, looking down at his hands. “Do you
know how many times I’ve been beaten over the course of my life?”

Chronicler shook his head.

Looking up, Kvothe grinned and tossed his shoulders in a nonchalant
shrug. “Neither do I. You’d think that sort of thing would stick in a person’s
mind. You’d think I would remember how many bones I’ve had broken.
You’d think I’d remember the stitches and bandages.” He shook his head. “I
don’t. I remember that young boy sobbing in the dark. Clear as a bell after all
these years.”

Chronicler frowned. “You said yourself that there was nothing you could
have done.”

“T could have,” Kvothe said seriously, “and I didn’t. I made my choice and
I regret it to this day. Bones mend. Regret stays with you forever.”

Kvothe pushed himself away from the table. “That’s enough of Tarbean’s
darker side, I imagine.” He came to his feet and gave a great stretch, arms
over his head.

“Why, Reshi?” The words poured out of Bast in a sudden gush. “Why did
you stay there when it was so awful?”

Kvothe nodded to himself, as if he had been expecting the question.
“Where else was there for me to go, Bast? Everyone I knew was dead.”

“Not everyone,” Bast insisted. “There was Abenthy. You could have gone
to him.”

“Hallowfell was hundreds of miles away, Bast,” Kvothe said wearily as he
wandered to the other side of the room and moved behind the bar. “Hundreds
of miles without my father’s maps to guide me. Hundreds of miles without
wagons to ride or sleep in. Without help of any sort, or money, or shoes. Not
an impossible journey, I suppose. But for a young child, still numb with the
shock of losing his parents. .. .”
