CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE

Basement, Bread and Bucket

IT WAS JUST AFTER lunchtime. Rather, it would have been after lunchtime
if I’d had anything to eat. I was begging in Merchant’s Circle and so far the
day had profited me two kicks (one guard, one mercenary), three shoves (two
wagoneers, one sailor), one new curse concerning an unlikely anatomical
configuration (also from the sailor), and a spray of spittle from a rather
unendearing elderly man of indeterminate occupation.

And one iron shim. Though I attributed it more to the laws of probability
than from any human kindness. Even a blind pig finds an acorn once in a
while.

I had been living in Tarbean for nearly a month, and the day before I had
tried my hand at stealing for the first time. It was an inauspicious beginning.
I’d been caught with my hand in a butcher’s pocket. This had earned me such
a tremendous blow to the side of the head that today I was dizzy when I tried
to stand or move about quickly. Hardly encouraged by my first foray into
thievery, I had decided that today was a begging day. As such, it was about
average.

Hunger knotted my stomach, and a single shim’s worth of stale bread
wasn’t going to help much. I was considering moving to a different street
when I saw a boy run up to a younger beggar across the way. They talked
excitedly for a moment then hurried off.

I followed of course, showing a pale shadow of my former burning
curiosity. Besides, anything that moved the two of them away from a busy
street corner in the middle of the day was bound to be worth my while.
Maybe the Tehlins were giving out bread again. Or a fruit cart had tipped
over. Or the guard was hanging someone. That would be worth half an hour
of my time.

I followed the boys through the twisting streets until | saw them turn a
comer and scurry down a flight of stairs into the basement of a burned-out
building. I stopped, my dim spark of curiosity smothered by my common
sense.

A moment later they reappeared, each carrying a chunk of flat brown bread.
I watched as they wandered past, laughing and shoving at each other. The
youngest, no more than six, saw me looking and waved.
