I woke clear-headed and cool.

“Oooohreeee,” Tanee said loudly from where he was tied to his cot.

“What what. Hush hush, Tanee.” Trapis said as he put down one of the
babies and picked up the other. It looked around owlishly with wide, dark
eyes, but seemed unable to support its own head. It was quiet in the room.

“Ooooooohreeee,” ‘Tanee said again.

I coughed, trying to clear my throat.

“There’s a cup on the floor next to you,” Trapis said, brushing a hand along
the head of the baby he held.

“QOOOOH OOHRRRREE EEEEEEHHAA!” Tanee bellowed, strange
half-gasps punctuating his cry. The noise agitated several of the others who
moved restlessly in their cots. The older boy sitting in the corner raised his
hands to the sides of his head and began to moan. He started rocking back and
forth, gently at first, but then more and more violently so that when he came
forward his head knocked against the bare stone of the wall.

Trapis was at his side before the boy could do himself any real harm. He
put his arms around the rocking boy. “Hush hush, Loni. Hush hush.” The
boy’s rocking slowed but did not entirely subside. “Tanee, you know better
than to make all that noise.” His voice was serious, but not stern. “Why are
you making trouble? Loni could hurt himself.”

“Oorrahee,” Tanee said softly. I thought I could detect a note of remorse in
his voice.

“T think he wants a story,” I said, surprising myself by speaking.

“Aaaa,” Tanee said.

“Is that what you want, Tanee?”

“Aaaa.”

There was a quiet moment. “I don’t know any stories,” he said.

Tanee remained stubbornly silent.

Everyone knows one story, I thought. Everyone knows at least one.

“Ooooooree!”

Trapis looked around at the quiet room, as if looking for an excuse. “Well,”
he said reluctantly. “It has been a while since we had a story, hasn’t it?” He
looked down at the boy in his arms. “Would you like a story, Loni?”

Loni nodded a violent affirmation, nearly battering Trapis’ cheek with the
back of his head.

“Will you be good and sit by yourself, so I can tell a story?”

Loni stopped rocking almost immediately. Trapis slowly unwrapped his
arms and stepped away. After a long look to make sure the boy wouldn’t hurt
himself, he stepped carefully back to his chair.

“Well,” he muttered softly to himself as he stooped to pick up the baby he
