CHAPTER TWENTY-SIX

Lanre Turned

I HAD BEEN IN Tarbean for years at this point. Three birthdays had slipped
by unnoticed and I was just past fifteen. I knew how to survive Waterside. I
had become an accomplished beggar and thief. Locks and pockets opened to
my touch. I knew which pawnshops bought goods “from uncle” with no
questions asked.

I was still ragged and frequently hungry, but I was in no real danger of
starving. I had been slowly building my rainy-day money. Even after a hard
winter that had frequently forced me to pay for a warm spot to sleep, my
hoard was over twenty iron pennies. It was like a dragon’s treasure to me.

I had grown comfortable there. But aside from the desire to add to my
rainy-day money I had nothing to live for. Nothing driving me. Nothing to
look forward to. My days were spent looking for things to steal and ways to
entertain myself.

But that had changed a few days earlier in Trapis’ basement. I had heard a
young girl speaking in an awed voice about a storyteller who spent all his
time in a Dockside bar called the Half-Mast. Apparently, every sixth bell he
told a story. Any story you asked for, he knew. What’s more, she said that he
had a bet going. If he didn’t know your story, he would give you a whole
talent.

I thought about what the girl had said for the rest of the day. I doubted it
was true, but I couldn’t help thinking about what I could do with a whole
silver talent. I could buy shoes, and maybe a knife, give money to Trapis, and
still double my rainy-day fund.

Even if the girl was lying about the bet, I was still interested. Entertainment
was hard to come by on the streets. Occasionally some ragamuffin troupe
would mum a play on a street corner or I’d hear a fiddler in a pub. But most
real entertainment cost money, and my hard-won pennies were too precious to
Squander.

But there was a problem. Dockside wasn’t safe for me.

I should explain. More than a year before, I had seen Pike walking down
the street. It had been the first time I’d seen him since my first day in Tarbean
when he and his friends had jumped me in that alley and destroyed my
father’s lute.
