Please keep the hearthfire burning.”

When I came out of the wagon, he had her in a dramatic dip and was giving
her a kiss. I set the needle and thread next to my shirt and waited. It seemed
like a good kiss. I watched with a calculating eye, dimly aware that at some
point in the future I might want to kiss a lady. If I did, I wanted to do a decent
job of it.

After a moment my father noticed me and stood my mother back on her
feet. “That will be ha’penny for the show, Master Voyeur,” he laughed. “What
are you still here for, boy? Ill bet you the same ha’penny that a question
Slowed you down.”

“Why do we stop for the greystones?”’

“Tradition, my boy,” he said grandly, throwing his arms wide. “And
Superstition. They are one and the same, anyway. We stop for good luck and
because everyone enjoys an unexpected holiday.” He paused. “I used to know
a bit of poem about them. How did it go... ?

“Like a drawstone even in our sleep

Standing stone by old road is the way

To lead you ever deeper into Fae.

Laystone as you lay in hill or dell

Greystone leads to something something ‘ell’.”

My father stood for a second or two looking off into space and tugging at
his lower lip. Finally he shook his head. “Can’t remember the end of that last
line. Lord but I dislike poetry. How can anyone remember words that aren’t
put to music?” His forehead creased with concentration as he mouthed the
words silently to himself.

“What’s a drawstone?” I asked.

“Tt’s an old name for loden-stones,” my mother explained. “They’re pieces
of star-iron that draw all other iron toward themselves. I saw one years ago in
a curiosity cabinet.” She looked up at my father who was still muttering to
himself. “We saw the loden-stone in Peleresin, didn’t we?”

“Hmmm? What?” The question jogged him out of his reverie. “Yes.
Peleresin.” He tugged at his lip again and frowned. “Remember this, son, if
you forget everything else. A poet is a musician who can’t sing. Words have
to find a man’s mind before they can touch his heart, and some men’s minds
are woeful small targets. Music touches their hearts directly no matter how
small or stubborn the mind of the man who listens.”

My mother made a slightly unladylike snort. “Elitist. You’re just getting
old.” She gave a dramatic sigh. “Truly, all the more’s the tragedy; the second
thing to go is a man’s memory.”

My father puffed up into an indignant pose but my mother ignored him and
said to me, “Besides, the only tradition that keeps troupes by the greystone is
