“You’re old enough, you should know not to run by now.” He shook me
angrily and twisted my hair. I cried out as the alley tilted around me.

He pressed me roughly against a wall. “You should know enough not to be
coming Hillside either.” He shook me. “You dumb, boy?”

“No,” I said muzzily as I felt for the cool wall with my free hand. “No.”

My answer seemed to infuriate him. “No?” he bit off the word. “You got
me in trouble, boy. I might get written up. If you aren’t dumb, then you must
need a lesson.” He spun me around and threw me down. I slid in the greasy
alley snow. My elbow struck the ground and my arm went numb. The hand
clutching a month of food, warm blankets, and dry shoes came open.
Something precious flew away and landed without even a clink as it hit the
sround.

I hardly noticed. The air hummed before his club cracked against my leg.
He snarled at me, “Don’t come Hillside, understand?” The club caught me
again, this time across the shoulder blades. “Everything past Fallow Street is
off limits to you little whore’s sons. Understand?” he backhanded me across
the face and I tasted blood as my head careened off the snow-covered cobbles.

I curled into a ball as he hissed down at me. “And Mill Street and Mill
Market is where I work, so you never. Come. Back. Here. Again.” He
punctuated each word with a blow from his stick. “Understand?”

I lay there shaking in the churned-up snow, hoping it was over. Hoping he
would just go away. “Understand?” He kicked me in the stomach and I felt
something tear inside of me.

I cried out and must have babbled something. He kicked me again when I
didn’t get up, then went away.

I think I passed out or lay in a daze. When I finally came to my senses
again, it was dusk. I was cold to the very center of my bones. I crawled
around in the muddy snow and wet garbage, searching for the silver penny
with fingers so numb with cold they would barely work.

One of my eyes was swelled shut and I could taste blood, but I searched
until the last scrap of evening’s light was gone. Even after the alley had gone
black as tar I kept sifting the snow with my hands, though I knew in my heart
of hearts that my fingers were too numb to feel the coin even if I chanced
across It.

I used the wall to get to my feet and started to walk. My wounded foot
made progress slow. Pain stabbed up my leg with each step, and I tried to use
the wall as a crutch to keep some weight off it.

I moved into Waterside, the part of the city that was more a home to me
than anywhere else. My foot grew numb and wooden from the cold, and while
that worried some rational piece of me, my practical side was just glad there
was one less part of me that hurt.

It was miles back to my secret place, and my limping progress was slow. At
