The wheel rung again, like a great bell tolling long and deep. Encanis threw
his body tight against the chains again and the sound of his scream shook the
earth and shattered stones for half a mile in each direction.

When the sounds of wheel and scream had faded, Encanis hung panting
and shaking from his chains. “I told you to speak no lie, Encanis,” Tehlu said,
pitiless.

“My path then!” Encanis shrieked. “I do not regret! If I had my choice
again, I would only change how fast I ran. Your people are like cattle my kind
feed on! Bite and break you, if you gave me half an hour I would do such
things that these wretched gawping peasants would go mad with fear. I would
drink their children’s blood and bathe in women’s tears.”” He might have said
more, but his breath was short as he strained against the chains that held him.

“So,” Tehlu said, and stepped close to the wheel. For a moment it seemed
like he would embrace Encanis, but he was merely reaching for the iron
spokes of the wheel. Then, straining, Tehlu lifted the wheel above his head.
He carried it, arms upstretched, toward the pit, and threw Encanis in.

Through the long hours of night, a dozen evergreens had fed the fire. The
flames had died in the early morning, leaving a deep bed of sullen coals that
glimmered when the wind brushed them.

The wheel struck flat, with Encanis on top. There was an explosion of
spark and ash as it landed and sank inches deep into the hot coals. Encanis
was held over the coals by the iron that bound and burned and bit at him.

Though he was held away from the fire itself, the heat was so intense that
Encanis’ clothes charred black and began to crumble without bursting into
flame. The demon thrashed against his bonds, settling the wheel more firmly
into the coals. Encanis screamed, because he knew that even demons can die
from fire or iron. And though he was powerful, he was bound and burning. He
felt the metal of the wheel grow hot beneath him, blackening the flesh of his
arms and legs. Encanis screamed, and even as his skin began to smoke and
char, his face was still hidden in a shadow that rose from him like a tongue of
darkening flame.

Then Encanis grew silent, and the only sound was the hiss of sweat and
blood as they fell from the demon’s straining limbs. For a long moment
everything was still. Encanis strained against the chains that held him to the
wheel, and it seemed that he would strain until his muscles tore themselves
from bone and sinew both.

Then there was a sharp sound like a bell breaking and the demon’s arm
jerked free of the wheel. Links of chain, now glowing red from the heat of the
fire, flew upward to land smoking at the feet of those who stood above. The
only sound was the sudden, wild laughter of Encanis, like breaking glass.

In a moment the demon’s second hand was free, but before he could do
more, Tehlu flung himself into the pit and landed with such force that the iron
