Saw and felt them: Sun Setting Behind the Clouds, Bird Taking a Drink, Dew
in the Bracken.

Somewhere in the third month I stopped looking outside and started
looking inside for things to play. I learned to play Riding in the Wagon with
Ben, Singing with Father by the Fire, Watching Shandi Dance, Grinding
Leaves When it Is Nice Outside, Mother Smiling. ...

Needless to say, playing these things hurt, but it was a hurt like tender
fingers on lute strings. I bled a bit and hoped that I would callous soon.

Toward the end of summer, one of the strings broke, broke beyond repair. I
spent the better part of the day in a mute stupor, unsure of what to do. My
mind was still numb and mostly asleep. I focused with a dim shadow of my
usual cleverness on my problem. After realizing that I could neither make a
string nor acquire a new one, I sat back down and began to learn to play with
only six strings.

In a span I was nearly as good with six strings as I had been with seven.
Three span later I was trying to play Waiting While it Rains when a second
string broke.

This time I didn’t hesitate, I stripped off the useless string and started to
learn again.

It was midway through Reaping when the third string broke. After trying
for nearly half a day, I realized that three broken strings were too many. So I
packed a small dull knife, half a ball of string, and Ben’s book into a tattered
canvas sack. Then I shouldered my father’s lute and began to walk.

I tried humming Snow Falling with the Late Autumn Leaves; Calloused
Fingers and a Lute With Four Strings, but it wasn’t the same as playing it.

My plan was to find a road and follow it to a town. I had no idea how far I
was from either, in which direction they might lie, or what their names might
be. I knew I was somewhere in the southern Commonwealth, but the precise
location was buried, tangled up with other memories that I was not eager to
unearth.

The weather helped me make up my mind. Cool autumn was turning to
winter’s chill. I knew the weather was warmer to the south. So, lacking any
better plan, I set the sun on my left shoulder and tried to cover as much
distance as I could.

The next span was an ordeal.The little food I’d brought with me was soon
gone, and I had to stop and forage when I was hungry. Some days I couldn’t
find water, and when I did I had nothing I could use to carry it. The small
wagon track joined a bigger road, which joined a larger road yet. My feet
chafed and blistered against the insides of my shoes. Some nights were bitter
