“Tl tie your arms in a knot.”

“Your ma’s a penny whore.”

“Don’t talk about my mom, Lin.”

“Tron pennies.”

By this time I had managed to blink my eyes free from the tears and I could
see Pike squatting in the alley. He seemed fascinated by my lute. My beautiful
lute. He had a dreamy look in his eyes as he held it, turning it over and over in
his dirty hands. A slow horror was dawning on me through the haze of fear
and pain.

As the two voices grew louder behind me, I began to feel a hot anger
inside. I tensed. I couldn’t fight them, but I knew if I got hold of my lute and
made it into a crowd I could lose them and be safe again.

“... but she kept humping away anyway. But now she only got a halfpenny
a throw. That’s why your head is so soft. You’re lucky you don’t have a dent.
So don’t feel bad, that’s why you get religious so easy.” The first boy finished
triumphantly.

I felt only a tenseness on my right side. I tensed too, ready to spring.

“But thanks for the warning. I hear Tehlu likes to hide behind big clumps of
horseshit and th—”

Suddenly both of my arms were free as one boy tackled the other into the
wall. I sprinted the three steps to Pike, grabbed the lute by the neck, and
pulled.

But Pike was quicker than I’d expected, or stronger. The lute didn’t come
away in my hand. I was jerked to a halt and Pike was pulled to his feet.

My frustration and anger boiled over. I let go of the lute and threw myself
at Pike. I clawed madly at his face and neck, but he was a veteran of too many
street fights to let me get close to anything vital. One of my fingernails tore a
line of blood across his face from ear to chin. Then he was against me,
pressing me back until I hit the alley wall.

My head struck brick, and I would have fallen if Pike hadn’t been grinding
me into the crumbling wall. I gasped for breath and only then realized I’d
been screaming all the while.

He smelled like old sweat and rancid oil. His hands pinned my arms to my
sides as he pressed me harder into the wall. I was dimly aware that he must
have dropped my lute.

I gasped for breath again and flailed blindly, knocking my head against the
wall again. I found my face pressed into his shoulder and bit down hard. I felt
his skin break under my teeth and tasted blood.

Pike screamed and jerked away from me. I drew a breath and winced at a
tearing pain in my chest.

Before I could move or think, Pike grabbed me again. He bludgeoned me
up against the wall once, twice. My head whipsawed back and _ forth,
