beyond the doors of death.

But just as Lyra’s love had drawn him back from past the final door before,
so this time Lanre’s power forced him to return from sweet oblivion. His new-
won power burned him back into his body, forcing him to live.

Selitos looked at Lanre and understood all. Before the power of his sight,
these things hung like dark tapestries in the air about Lanre’s shaking form.

“T can kill you,” Selitos said, then looked away from Lanre’s expression
suddenly hopeful. “For an hour, or a day. But you would return, pulled like
iron to a loden-stone. Your name burns with the power in you. I can no more
extinguish it than I could throw a stone and strike down the moon.”

Lanre’s shoulders bowed. “I had hoped,” he said simply. “But I knew the
truth. I am no longer the Lanre you knew. Mine is a new and terrible name. I
am Haliax and no door can bar my passing. All is lost to me, no Lyra, no
sweet escape of sleep, no blissful forgetfulness, even madness is beyond me.
Death itself is an open doorway to my power. There is no escape. I have only
the hope of oblivion after everything is gone and the Aleu fall nameless from
the sky.” And as he said this Lanre hid his face in his hands, and his body
shook with silent, racking sobs.

Selitos looked out on the land below and felt a small spark of hope. Six
plumes of smoke rose from the land below. Myr Tariniel was gone, and six
cities destroyed. But that meant all was not lost. One city still remained. ...

In spite of all that had happened, Selitos looked at Lanre with pity, and
when he spoke it was with sadness in his voice. “Is there nothing then? No
hope?” He lay one hand on Lanre’s arm. “There is sweetness in life. Even
after all of this, I will help you look for it. If you will try.”

“No,” said Lanre. He stood to his full height, his face regal behind the lines
of grief. “There is nothing sweet. I will sow salt, lest the bitter weeds grow.”

“IT am sorry,” Selitos said, and stood upright as well.

Then Selitos spoke in a great voice, “Never before has my sight been
clouded. I failed to see the truth inside your heart.”

Selitos drew a deep breath. “By my eye I was deceived, never again... .’
He raised the stone and drove its needle point into his own eye. His scream
echoed among the rocks as he fell to his knees gasping. “May I never again be
so blind.”

A great silence descended, and the fetters of enchantment fell away from
Selitos. He cast the stone at Lanre’s feet and said, “By the power of my own
blood I bind you. By your own name let you be accursed.”

Selitos spoke the long name that lay in Lanre’s heart, and at the sound of it
the sun grew dark and wind tore stones from the mountainside.

Then Selitos spoke, “This is my doom upon you. May your face be always
held in shadow, black as the toppled towers of my beloved Myr Tariniel.

“This is my doom upon you. Your own name will be turned against you,

3
