In the midst of fear Lyra knelt by Lanre’s body and breathed his name. Her
voice was a beckoning. Her voice was love and longing. Her voice called him
to live again. But Lanre lay cold and dead.

In the midst of despair Lyra fell across Lanre’s body and wept his name.
Her voice was a whisper. Her voice was echo and emptiness. Her voice
begged him to live again. But Lanre lay breathless and dead.

Lanre was dead. Lyra wept brokenly and touched his face with trembling
hands. All around men turned their heads, because the bloody field was less
horrible to look upon than Lyra’s grief.

But Lanre heard her calling. Lanre turned at the sound of her voice and
came to her. From beyond the doors of death Lanre returned. He spoke her
name and took Lyra in his arms to comfort her. He opened his eyes and did
his best to wipe away her tears with shaking hands. And then he drew a deep
and living breath.

The survivors of the battle saw Lanre move and they marveled. The
flickering hope for peace each of them had nurtured for so long flared like hot
fire inside them.

“Lanre and Lyra!” they shouted, their voices like thunder. “Our lord’s love
is stronger than death! Our lady’s voice has called him back! Together they
have beaten death! Together, how can we help but be victorious?”

So the war continued, but with Lanre and Lyra fighting side by side the
future seemed less grim. Soon everyone knew the story of how Lanre had
died, and how his love and Lyra’s power had drawn him back. For the first
time in living memory people could speak openly of peace without being seen
as fools or madmen.

Years passed. The empire’s enemies grew thin and desperate and even the
most cynical of men could see the end of the war was drawing swiftly near.

Then rumors began to spread: Lyra was ill. Lyra had been kidnapped. Lyra
had died. Lanre had fled the empire. Lanre had gone mad. Some even said
Lanre had killed himself and gone searching for his wife in the land of the
dead. There were stories aplenty, but no one knew the truth of things.

In the midst of these rumors, Lanre arrived in Myr Tariniel. He came alone,
wearing his silver sword and haubergeon of black iron scales. His armor fit
him closely as a second skin of shadow. He had wrought it from the carcass of
the beast he had killed at Drossen Tor.

Lanre asked Selitos to walk with him outside the city. Selitos agreed,
hoping to learn the truth of Lanre’s trouble and offer him what comfort a
friend can give. They often kept each other’s council, for they were both lords
among their people.

Selitos had heard the rumors, and he was worried. He feared for Lyra’s
health, but more he feared for Lanre. Selitos was wise. He understood how
srief can twist a heart, how passions drive good men to folly.
