some point I must have fallen. I don’t remember it, but I do remember lying
in the snow and realizing how delightfully comfortable it was. I felt sleep
drawing itself over me like a thick blanket, like death.

I closed my eyes. I remember the deep silence of the deserted street around
me. I was too numb and tired to be properly afraid. In my delirium, I
imagined death in the form of a great bird with wings of fire and shadow. It
hovered above, watching patiently, waiting for me....

I slept, and the great bird settled its burning wings around me. I imagined a
delicious warmth. Then its claws were in me, tearing me open—

No, it was just the pain of my torn ribs as someone rolled me onto my back.

Blearily, I opened an eye and saw a demon standing over me. In my
confused and credulous state, the sight of the man in the demon mask startled
me into wakefulness, the seductive warmth I had felt a moment ago vanished,
leaving my body limp and leaden.

“It is. I told you. There’s a kid lying in the snow here!” The demon lifted
me to my feet.

Now awake, I noticed his mask was sheer black. This was Encanis, Lord of
Demons. He set me unsteadily onto my feet and began to brush away the
snow that covered me.

Through my good eye I saw a figure in a livid green mask standing nearby.
“Come on...” the other demon said urgently, her voice sounding hollowly
from behind the rows of pointed teeth.

Encanis ignored her. “Are you okay?”

I couldn’t think of a response, so I concentrated on keeping my balance as
the man continued to brush the snow away with the sleeve of his dark robe. I
heard the sound of distant horns.

The other demon looked nervously down the road. “If we don’t keep ahead
of them we’Il be up to our shins in it,” she hissed nervously.

Encanis brushed the snow out of my hair with his dark gloved fingers, then
paused and leaned in closer to look at my face. His dark mask loomed oddly
in my blurry vision.

“God’s body, Holly, someone’s beaten hell out of this kid. On Midwinter’s
Day, too.”

“Guard,” I managed to croak. I tasted blood when I said the word.

“You’re freezing,” Encanis said and began to chafe my arms and legs with
his hands, trying to get my blood flowing again. “You’ll have to come with
us.”

The horns sounded again, closer. They were mixed with the dim sounds of
a crowd.

“Don’t be stupid,” the other demon said. “He’s in no shape to go running
through the city.”

“He’s in no shape to stay here,” Encanis snapped. He continued to massage
