wall served as a crude mirror.

He brought me a brush, a bucket of steaming water, and a cake of lye soap.
I scrubbed until I was sore and pink. The innkeeper brought a second bucket
of hot water, then a third. I gave a silent prayer of thanks that I didn’t seem to
be lousy. I had probably been too filthy for any self-respecting louse to take
up residence.

As I rinsed myself for the last time, I looked at my discarded clothes.
Cleaner than I’d been in years, I didn’t want to touch them, let alone wear
them. If I tried to wash them they’d simply fall apart.

I dried myself off and I used the rough brush to pull through the snarls in
my hair. It was longer than it had seemed when it was dirty. I wiped the fog
from the makeshift mirror and was surprised. I looked old, older at any rate.
Not only that, I looked like some young noble’s son. My face was lean and
fair. My hair needed a bit of a trim, but was shoulder-length and straight, as
was the current fashion. The only thing missing was a noble’s clothes.

And that gave me an idea.

Still naked, I wrapped myself in a towel and left by the back door. I took
my purse but kept it out of sight. It was a little before noon and people were
everywhere. Needless to say, quite a few eyes were turned in my direction. |
ignored them and set a brisk pace, not trying to hide. I composed my features
into an impassive, angry mask without a trace of embarrassment.

I stopped by a father and son loading burlap sacks into a cart. The son was
about four years older than me and head and shoulders taller. “Boy,” I
snapped. “Where can I buy some clothes around here?” I looked pointedly at
his shirt. “Decent clothes,” I amended.

He looked at me, his expression somewhere between confusion and anger.
His father hurriedly took off his hat and stepped in front of his son. “Your
lordship might try Bentley’s. It’s plain stuff, but it’s only a street or two
away.”

I darkened my expression. “Is it the only place about?”

He gaped. “Well... it could... there’s one...”

I waved him impatiently into silence. “Where is it? Simply point, since
your wits have left you.”

He pointed and I strode off. As I walked I remembered one of the young
page parts I used to play in the troupe. The page’s name was Dunstey, an
insufferably petulant little boy with an important father. He was perfect. I
gave my head an imperious tilt, set my shoulders a little differently and made
a couple of mental adjustments.

I threw open the door and stormed in. There was a man in a leather apron
who I can only assume was Bentley. He was fortyish, thin, and balding. He
jumped at the sound of his door banging against the wall. He turned to look at
me, his expression incredulous.
