CHAPTER TWENTY-SEVEN

His Eyes Unveiled

I LEFT THE BAR smiling, unmindful of the fact that I was still Dockside and
in danger. I felt buoyant knowing I would have the chance to hear another
story soon. It had been a long time since I had looked forward to anything. I
went back to my street corner and proceeded to waste three hours begging,
not gaining so much as a thin shim for my efforts. Even this failed to dampen
my spirits. Tomorrow was Mourning, but the day after there would be stories!

But as I sat there, I felt a vague unease creep over me. A feeling that I was
forgetting something impinged on my too-rare happiness. I tried to ignore it,
but it stayed with me all day and into the next, like a mosquito I couldn’t see,
let alone swat. By the end of the day, I was certain I had forgotten something.
Something about the story Skarpi had told.

It is easy for you to see, no doubt, hearing the story like this, conveniently
arranged and narrated. Keep in mind that I had been living like an animal in
Tarbean for nearly three years. Pieces of my mind were still asleep, and my
painful memories had been gathering dust behind the door of forgetfulness. I
had grown used to avoiding them, the same way a cripple keeps weight off an
injured leg.

Luck smiled on me the next day, and I managed to steal a bundle of rags off
the back of a wagon and sell them to a ragman for four iron pennies. Too
hungry to worry about tomorrow, I bought a thick slice of cheese and a warm
sausage, then a whole loaf of fresh bread and a warm apple tart. Finally, on a
whim, I went to the back door of the nearby inn and spent my final penny on
a mug of strong beer.

I sat on the steps of a bakery across the street from the inn and watched
people coming and going as I enjoyed my best meal in months. Soon twilight
faded into darkness and my head began to spin pleasantly from the beer. But
as the food settled in my belly, the nagging sensation returned, stronger than
before. I frowned, irritated that something would spoil an otherwise perfect
day.

Night deepened until the inn across the street stood in a pool of light. A few
women hovered near the doorway to the inn. They murmured in low voices
and gave knowing looks to the men who walked past.

I drank off the last of the beer and was about to cross the street and return
