were like his sword, and neither one reflected the light of the fire or the
setting sun.

He relaxed when he saw me. He dropped the tip of his sword and smiled
with perfect ivory teeth. It was the expression a nightmare wore. I felt a stab
of feeling penetrate the confusion I clutched around me like a thick protective
blanket. Something put both its hands deep into my chest and clutched. It may
have been the first time in my life I was ever truly afraid.

Back by the fire, a bald man with a grey beard chuckled. “Looks like we
missed a little rabbit. Careful Cinder, his teeth may be sharp.”

The one called Cinder sheathed his sword with the sound of a tree cracking
under the weight of winter ice. Keeping his distance, he knelt. Again I was
reminded of the way mercury moved. Now on eye level with me, his
expression grew concermed behind his matte-black eyes. “What’s your name,
boy?”

I stood there, mute. Frozen as a startled fawn.

Cinder sighed and dropped his gaze to the ground for a moment. When he
looked back up at me I saw pity staring at me with hollow eyes.

“Young man,” he said, “wherever are your parents?” He held my gaze for a
moment and then looked over his shoulder back toward the fire where the
others sat.

“Does anyone know where his parents are?”

Some of them smiled, hard and brittle, as if enjoying a particularly good
joke. One or two of them laughed aloud. Cinder turned back to me and the
pity fell away like a cracked mask, leaving only the nightmare smile upon his
face.

“Is this your parents’ fire?” he asked with a terrible delight in his voice.

I nodded numbly.

His smile slowly faded. Expressionless, he looked deep into me. His voice
was quiet, cold, and sharp. “Someone’s parents,” he said, “have been singing
entirely the wrong sort of songs.”

“Cinder.” A cool voice came from the direction of the fire.

His black eyes narrowed in irritation. “What?” he hissed.

“You are approaching my displeasure.This one has done nothing. Send him
to the soft and painless blanket of his sleep.” The cool voice caught slightly
on the last word, as if it were difficult to say.

The voice came from a man who sat apart from the rest, wrapped in
shadow at the edge of the fire. Though the sky was still bright with sunset and
nothing stood between the fire and where he sat, shadow pooled around him
like thick oil. The fire snapped and danced, lively and warm, tinged with blue,
but no flicker of its light came close to him. The shadow gathered thicker
around his head. I could catch a glimpse of a deep cowl like some priests
wear, but underneath the shadows were so deep it was like looking down a
