Thus it was that she was not surprised to discover she was pregnant. In
three months she gave birth to a perfect dark-eyed baby boy. She named him
Menda. The day after he was born, Menda could crawl. In two days he could
walk. Perial was surprised, but not worried, for she knew the child was a gift
from God.

Nevertheless, Perial was wise. She knew that people might not understand.
So she kept Menda close by her, and when her friends and neighbors came to
visit, she sent them away.

But this could only last a little while, for in a small town there are no
secrets. Folk knew that Perial was not married. And while children born out
of wedlock were common during this time, children who grew to manhood in
less than two months were not. They were afraid that she might have lain
down with a demon, and that her child was a demon’s child. Such things were
not unheard of in those dark times, and the people were afraid.

So everyone gathered together on the first day of the seventh span, and
made their way to the tiny house where Perial lived by herself with her son.
The town smith, whose name was Rengen, led them. “Show us the boy,” he
yelled. But there was no response from the house. “Bring out the boy, and
show us he is nothing but a human child.”

The house remained quiet, and though there were many men among them,
no one wanted to enter a house that might have a demon’s child inside. So the
smith cried out again, “Perial, bring out young Menda, or we will burn your
house around you.”

The door opened, and a man stepped out. None of them recognized who it
was, because even though he was only seven span from the womb, Menda
looked to be a young man of seventeen. He stood proud and tall, with coal-
black hair and eyes. “I am the one you think is Menda,” he said in a voice
both powerful and deep. “What do you want of me?”

The sound of his voice made Perial gasp inside the cottage. Not only was
this the first time Menda had ever spoken, but she recognized his voice as the
Same one that had spoken to her in a dream, months ago.

“What do you mean, we think you are Menda?” asked the smith, gripping
his hammer tightly. He knew that there were demons that looked like men, or
wore their skins like costumes, the way a man might hide beneath a
sheepskin.

The child who was not a child spoke again. “I am Perial’s son, but I am not
Menda. And I am not a demon.”

“Touch the iron of my hammer then,” said Rengen, for he knew all demons
feared two things, cold iron and clean fire. He held out his heavy forge
hammer. It shook in his hands, but no one thought the less of him for it.

He who was not Menda stepped forward and lay both hands on the iron
head of the hammer. Nothing happened. From the doorway of her house
