CHAPTER TWENTY-FOUR

Shadows Themselves

THROUGH ALL MY TIME in Tarbean, I continued to learn, though most of
the lessons were painful and unpleasant.

I learned how to beg. It was a very practical application of acting with a
very difficult audience. I did it well, but Waterside money was tight and an
empty begging bowl meant a cold, hungry night.

Through dangerous trial and error I discovered the proper way to slit a
purse and pick a pocket. I was especially good at the latter. Locks and latches
of all kinds soon gave up their secrets to me. My nimble fingers were put to a
use my parents or Abenthy never would have guessed.

I learned to run from anyone with an unnaturally white smile. Denner resin
slowly bleaches your teeth, so if a sweet-eater lives long enough for their
teeth to grow fully white, chances are they have already sold everything they
have worth selling. Tarbean is full of dangerous people, but none as
dangerous as a sweet-eater filled with the desperate craving for more resin.
They will kill you for a pair of pennies.

I learned how to lash together makeshift shoes out of rags. Real shoes
became a thing of dreams for me. The first two years it seemed like my feet
were always cold, or cut, or both. But by the third year my feet were like old
leather and I could run barefoot for hours over the rough stones of the city and
not feel it at all.

I learned not to expect help from anyone. In the bad parts of Tarbean a call
for help attracts predators like the smell of blood on the wind.

I was sleeping on the rooftops, snugged tightly into my secret place where
three roofs met. I awoke from a deep sleep to the sound of harsh laughter and
pounding feet in the alley below me.

The slapping footsteps stopped and more laughter followed the sound of
ripping cloth. Slipping to the edge of the roof, I looked down to the alley
below. I saw several large boys, almost men. They were dressed as I was, rags
and dirt. There may have been five, maybe six of them. They moved in and
out of the shadows like shadows themselves. Their chests heaved from their
run and I could hear their breath from the roof above.
