and savage eyes. The dirt that smudged his face gave him the appearance of
having a beard, making his young face strangely cruel.

Two other boys jerked me away from the wall. I yelped as one of them
twisted my arm. The older boy smiled at the sound and ran a hand through his
hair. “What are you doin’ here, Nalt? You lost?” His grin broadened.

I tried to pull away but one of the boys twisted my wrist and I gasped,
“No.”

“T think he’s lost, Pike,” the boy on my right said. The one on my left
elbowed me sharply in the side of the head and the alley tilted crazily around
me.

Pike laughed.

“1’m looking for the Woodworks,” I muttered, slightly stunned.

Pike’s expression turned murderous. His hands grabbed my shoulders. “Did
I ask you a question?” he shouted. “Did I say you could talk?” He slammed
his forehead into my face and I felt a sharp crack followed by an explosion of
pain.

“Hey, Pike.” The voice seemed to come from an impossible direction. A
foot nudged my lute case, tipping it over. “Hey Pike, look at this.”

Pike looked down at the hollow thump as the lute case fell flat against the
sround. “What did you steal, Nalt?”

“T didn’t steal it.”

One of the boys holding my arms laughed. “Yeah, your uncle gave it to you
so you could sell it to buy medicine for your sick grandma.” He laughed again
while I tried to blink the tears out of my eyes.

I heard three clicks as the latches were undone. Then came the distinctive
harmonic thrum as the lute was taken out of its case.

“Your grandma is gonna be mighty sorry you lost this, Nalt,” Pike’s voice
was quiet.

“Tehlu crush us!” the boy on my right exploded. “Pike, ya know how much
one of them’s worth? Gold, Pike!”

“Don’t say Tehlu’s name like that,” said the boy on my left.

“What?”

“ “Do not call on Tehlu save in the greatest need, for Tehlu judges every
thought and deed,’ ” he recited.

“Tehlu and his great glowing penis can piss all over me if that thing isn’t
worth twenty talents. That means we can get at least six from Diken. Do you
know what you can do with that much money?”

“You won’t get the chance to do anything with it if you don’t quit saying
things like that. Tehlu watches over us, but he is vengeful.” The second boy’s
voice was reverent and afraid.

“You’ve been sleeping in the church again haven’t you? You get religion
like I get fleas.”
