CHAPTER TWENTY-NINE

The Doors of My Mind

UP ONTO THE ROOFTOPS and back to my secret place, I wrapped myself
in my blanket and cried. I cried as if something inside me had broken and
everything was rushing out.

When I had worn myself out with sobbing it was deep into the night. I lay
there looking at the sky, weary but unable to sleep. I thought of my parents
and of the troupe, and was surprised to find the memories less bitter than
before.

For the first time in years, I used one of the tricks Ben had taught me for
calming and sharpening the mind. It was harder than I remembered, but I did
it.

If you have ever slept the whole night without moving, then awoke in the
morning, your body stiff with inaction. If you can remember how that first
terrific stretch feels, pleasant and painful, then you may understand how my
mind felt after all these years, stretching awake on the rooftops of Tarbean.

I spent the rest of that night opening the doors of my mind. Inside I found
things long forgotten: my mother fitting words together for a song, diction for
the stage, three recipes for tea to calm nerves and promote sleep, finger scales
for the lute.

My music. Had it really been years since I held a lute?

I spent a long time thinking about the Chandrian, about what they had done
to my troupe, what they had taken from me. I remembered blood and the
smell of burning hair and felt a deep, sullen anger burning in my chest. I will
admit I thought dark, vengeful thoughts that night.

But my years in Tarbean had instilled an iron-hard practicality. I knew
revenge was nothing more than a childish fantasy. I was fifteen. What could I
possibly do?

I did know one thing. It had come to me as | lay remembering. It was
something Haliax had said to Cinder. Who keeps you safe from the Amyr? The
singers? The Sithe? From all that would harm you in the world?

The Chandrian had enemies. If I could find them, they would help me. I
had no idea who the singers or the Sithe were, but everyone knew that the
Amyr were church knights, the strong right hand of the Aturan Empire.
Unfortunately, everyone also knew that there had been no Amyr in three
