laziness. The poem should run like this:

“Whatever the season
That I’m on the road

I look for a reason
Loden or laystone

To lay down my load.”

My father had a dark glimmer in his eye as he moved behind her. “Old?”
He spoke in a low voice as he began to rub her shoulders again. “Woman, I
have a mind to prove you wrong.”

She smiled a wry smile. “Sir, I have a mind to let you.”

I decided to leave them to their discussion and started to scamper back to
Ben’s wagon when I heard my father call out behind me, “Scales after lunch
tomorrow? And the second act of Tinbertin?”’

“Okay.” I burst into a jog.

When I got back to Ben’s wagon he had already unhitched Alpha and Beta
and was rubbing them down. I started to set up the fire, surrounding dry
leaves with a pyramid of progressively larger twigs and branches. When I was
finished I turned to where Ben sat.

More silence. I could almost see him picking out his words as he spoke.
“How much do you know about your father’s new song?”

“The one about Lanre?” I asked. “Not much. You know what he’s like. No
one hears it until it’s finished. Not even me.”

“’m not talking about the song itself,” Ben said. “The story behind it.
Lanre’s story.”

I thought about the dozens of stories I’d heard my father collect over the
last year, trying to pick out the common threads. “Lanre was a prince,” I said.
“Or a king. Someone important. He wanted to be more powerful than anyone
else in the world. He sold his soul for power but then something went wrong
and afterward I think he went crazy, or he couldn’t ever sleep again, or...” I
stopped when I saw Ben shaking his head.

“He didn’t sell his soul,” Ben said. “That’s just nonsense.” He gave a great
sigh that seemed to leave him deflated. “I’m doing this all wrong. Never mind
your father’s song. We’ll talk about it after he finishes it. Knowing Lanre’s
story might give you some perspective.”

Ben took a deep breath and tried again. “Suppose you have a thoughtless
six-year-old. What harm can he do?”

I paused, unsure what sort of answer he wanted. Straightforward would
probably be best. “Not much.”

“Suppose he’s twenty, and still thoughtless, how dangerous is he?”

I decided to stick with the obvious answers. “Still not much, but more than
before.”
