trailed off, clutching my lute closer to my chest and moving a couple of steps
away.

He looked at me more closely, as if seeing me for the first time. Suddenly
self-conscious, I imagined how I must look: ragged and half-starved. I hugged
the lute and backed farther away. The farmer’s hands fell to his side and his
smile faded. “Ah, lad,” he said softly.

He set the squash down, then turned back to me and spoke with a gentle
seriousness. “Me and Jake will be here selling until round about sundown. If
you find what you’re looking for by then, you’d be welcome back on the farm
with us. The missus and me could sure use an extra hand some days. You’d be
more than welcome. Wouldn’t he Jake?”

Jake was looking at me too, pity written across his honest face. “Sure
enough, Pa. She said so right afore we left.”

The old farmer continued to look at me with serious eyes. “This is Seaward
Square.” He said, pointing at his feet. “We’ll be here till dark, maybe a little
after. You come back if’n you want a ride.” His eyes turned worried. “You
hear me? You can come back with us.”

I continued to back away, step by step, not sure why I was doing it. Only
knowing that if I went with him I would have to explain, would have to
remember. Anything was better than opening that door... .

“No. No, thank you,” I stammered. “You’ve helped so much. I’|l be fine.” I
was jostled from behind by a man in a leather apron. Startled, I turned and
ran.

I heard one of them call out behind me, but the crowd drowned them out. I
ran, my heart heavy in my chest.

Tarbean is big enough that you cannot walk from one end to the other in a
single day. Not even if you avoid getting lost or accosted in the tangled web
of twisting streets and dead end alleys.

It was too big, actually. It was vast, immense. Seas of people, forests of
buildings, roads wide as rivers. It smelled like urine and sweat and coal
smoke and tar. If I had been in my right mind, I never would have gone there.

In the fullness of time, I became lost. I took a turn too early or too late, then
tried to compensate by cutting through an alley like a narrow chasm between
two tall buildings. It wound like a gully carved by a river that had left to find
a cleaner bed. Garbage drifted up the walls and filled the cracks between
buildings and the alcove doorways. After I had taken several turns I caught
the rancid smell of something dead.

I turned a corner and staggered against a wall as pain stars blinded me. I
felt rough hands grab hold of my arms.

I opened my eyes to see an older boy. He was twice my size with dark hair
